Number of Research Scientists: 35; Number of Staff: 80.
Scientific Fields of Interest: Agriculture; biology; energy; earth sciences; environment; veterinary.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: Research and Development: Development of
techniques to halt formation of sand dunes; management of water harvesting in wadis; study of
behaviour of main pastoral plant species; creation of bank of arid zone species; cartography of pastoral
resources covering 700,000 hectares and desertification dynamics of 750,000 hectares; study of life
cycle of two insects — Apathe monachus and Ectomyelois ceratonia — posing danger to oasis
agriculture; improvement of milk and meat production of local goat strain; improvement of camel
reproduction; identification and analyses of production systems in arid and desert zones. Training:
Training of 144 technicians, 16 engineers and 15 technical engineers. More than 40 training sessions
have been organized for some 550 students from Tunisia and various Arab, African and European
countries. Promulgation and Sensitization: Implementation of information programme advising farmers,
primary and secondary schools and agricultural schools; encouragement of farmers to adopt modern
farming techniques; establishment of fertilization stations for breeding of local goats. Studies:
Contributions to regional and national through regional studies of integrated development.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Several scientific and technical reports about arid zone
agriculture and the fight against desertification; Revue des Régions Arides informs readers of current
research results and studies concerning human/land interactions in arid areas, management of natural
resources, arid soils, desertification and sustainable farming in arid areas; Cahiers de ITRA highlights
programmes currently underway and summarizes various technical reports.
Main Research Facilities Available: Nine laboratories (water and soil, agronomy, statistics, genetics,
remote sensing, pastoral resources, economics, wind erosion, livestock); 26 computers; library
containing 6,000 books, 7,000 brochures and 30 subscriptions to specialized journals and reviews; four
field stations in Gabès, Kabili, Tataouine and Ben Gardane.
Future Development Plans: Courses on afforestation, desertification control, livestock. Training,
workshops and seminars focusing on Institute’s areas of expertise.