HARNESSING TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK DATA FOR RAINFALL MONITORING IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
The lack of accurate rainfall measurements in developing countries poses problems in monitoring crop yields, which in turn can make it difficult for the providers of rainfall-based index insurance to gauge risks and set rates accurately.
Existing instruments available for monitoring rainfall—including rain gauges, radar, and satellites—all have limitations. For example, rain gauges provide a local observation that does not faithfully represent the measured region in its entirety. Satellite rainfall retrievals made from space may be inaccurate near ground level. Due to budgetary constraints, rain gauges and radar equipment are often sparingly deployed in developing countries.
A new initiative led by researchers from IFPRI, Cornell University, and the Israeli startup AtmosCell Labs will use commercial microwave links (CMLs) to estimate rainfall in crop production monitoring and help design better rainfall-based index insurance in developing countries. The proposed approach has huge potential to provide extensive rainfall measurements from low-income countries where weather-monitoring capabilities are often quite limited.
CMLs form the infrastructure for data transmission between cellular communication base stations. These wireless microwave links are widely deployed by cellular providers and typically situated just a few tens of meters above ground level. Rainfall causes attenuation to the radio beams between transmitter and receiver in the network. As a result, quantitative precipitation estimates can be made based on changes observed in the quality of the electromagnetic signals.
This is a sustainable long-term solution, as it relies on existing infrastructure and data collection by telecommunication companies. The implementation cost is minimal because the data is already collected and logged by many cellular operators in the course of monitoring quality of service anyway.
Since wireless communication systems are widely installed in the field, they can be used as a complementary tool and as a replacement for conventional instruments where those aren’t available. Many CMLs are installed in mountainous regions and other hard-to-reach areas, enabling observations in places that have been hard to access in the past or where rainfall has never been measured before.
The lack of accurate rainfall measurements in developing countries poses problems in monitoring crop yields, which in turn can make it difficult for the providers of rainfall-based index insurance to gauge risks and set rates accurately.
Existing instruments available for monitoring rainfall—including rain gauges, radar, and satellites—all have limitations. For example, rain gauges provide a local observation that does not faithfully represent the measured region in its entirety. Satellite rainfall retrievals made from space may be inaccurate near ground level. Due to budgetary constraints, rain gauges and radar equipment are often sparingly deployed in developing countries.
A new initiative led by researchers from IFPRI, Cornell University, and the Israeli startup AtmosCell Labs will use commercial microwave links (CMLs) to estimate rainfall in crop production monitoring and help design better rainfall-based index insurance in developing countries. The proposed approach has huge potential to provide extensive rainfall measurements from low-income countries where weather-monitoring capabilities are often quite limited.
CMLs form the infrastructure for data transmission between cellular communication base stations. These wireless microwave links are widely deployed by cellular providers and typically situated just a few tens of meters above ground level. Rainfall causes attenuation to the radio beams between transmitter and receiver in the network. As a result, quantitative precipitation estimates can be made based on changes observed in the quality of the electromagnetic signals.
This is a sustainable long-term solution, as it relies on existing infrastructure and data collection by telecommunication companies. The implementation cost is minimal because the data is already collected and logged by many cellular operators in the course of monitoring quality of service anyway.
Since wireless communication systems are widely installed in the field, they can be used as a complementary tool and as a replacement for conventional instruments where those aren't available. Many CMLs are installed in mountainous regions and other hard-to-reach areas, enabling observations in places that have been hard to access in the past or where rainfall has never been measured before.
The multidisciplinary team is working with data from a number of cellular network operators, and carrying out research on the topic in several directions. The team recently published a paper with a group from the Faculty of Geo-Information Science and Earth Observation (ITC) at the University of Twente in the Netherlands, presented at the 16th International Conference on Environmental Science and Technology conference in Rhodes, Greece, in September. The paper demonstrated the potential spatial advantage that it is sometimes possible to achieve using CMLs for monitoring rainfall, based on measurements in an agricultural area near Kericho, Kenya.
By combining data from the household survey, rain gauges, CMLs, weather stations, and satellite, the team aims to explore the value-added potential of high-resolution rainfall measurements in crop production monitoring and to quantify the reduction of basis risk in real-world index insurance, when compared to the standard methods of weather stations, radar, and satellites.
This technology-driven, data-based systems approach to address key societal challenges lying at the core of food systems and sustainable development in developing countries aligns squarely with the missions of IFPRI, Cornell University, and AtmosCell Labs, as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Ultimately, we hope, farmers will benefit from better designed rainfall-based index insurance and poor households will benefit from more accurate crop yield monitoring.
Noam David is the founder of AtmosCell Labs; Oliver Gao is a Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell University; Yanyan Liu is a Senior Research Fellow with IFPRI's Markets, Trade, and Institutions Division.
This research was funded by 2018 and 2019 Inspire Challenge grants from the CGIAR Platform for Big Data in Agriculture.
The 2019 report of the Global Commission on Adaptation for accelerated action to adapt to climate change included a call for increased allocation of resources to international agricultural research. The production and adaptation challenges faced by agriculture will be most acutely felt in Africa and South Asia, focus regions of the CGIAR, the world’s largest public food systems research network. These challenges come at a time when the CGIAR is undergoing a transformation of its partnerships, knowledge, assets and global presence, emerging as One CGIAR, aimed at sharpening its mission and impact focus to 2030 and beyond, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. Evidence on the impacts of CGIAR research since the 1980s have consistently found high rates of return to investment. How could this evidence on the performance of the CGIAR and its partnership with NARS in developing regions be used to inform investment priority setting and to achieve the One CGIAR goals in the coming years? We used detailed R&D investment data from the CGIAR, NARS (ASTI) and evidence from the literature on returns to CGIAR investment by crop and region to develop and calibrate a model of R&D investment that allows us to conduct priority-setting analysis of alternative CGIAR investment across research activities and regions. The model developed can be linked to global partial equilibrium and economy-wide forward-looking models to analyze the effect of different CGIAR investment options under alternative future scenarios. We checked the plausibility of the results obtained by the model calculating the Benefit-Cost ratio of historical CGIAR investments and found that each dollar invested by the CGIAR between 1971 and 2018 returned almost 10 dollars in output as the result of increased productivity, which is within the range of returns found by most recent meta-analyses impact of CGIAR investment. An application of the model to SSA shows that the best results for the CGIAR are obtained from investments in cassava and potato in Southern Africa; yams, sorghum, cassava and groundnuts in West Africa; cassava in East Africa and groundnuts and shoats in the Sahel.This analysis explores the relationship between agricultural R&D investments and rural poverty reduction, and the prevalence of undernourishment in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). It uses a panel data set of internationally comparable poverty dis-aggregated by urban and rural areas, country level undernourishment, and ASTI data on R&D investments and derived indicators. The study uses agricultural R&D knowledge stocks (KS) to account for the lagged effects of research through depreciation and gestation period of investments, and applies causal mediation analysis to assess the impact of KS on poverty and hunger and measure the relative contribution of KS-induced agricultural productivity growth on those outcomes. Evidence suggests that, while SSA growth in KS has been relatively slow, it helped reduce rural poverty and undernourishment – the percentage point reduction in rural extreme and moderate poverty of a 1% annual increase in KS is 0.218 and 0.146 percentage points per year, respectively. Mediation analysis indicates that a fifth of the KS effect on extreme rural poverty, and a quarter of the KS effect on moderate rural poverty, can be attributed to KS driven gains in agricultural labor productivity. Likewise, KS growth reduces undernourishment – a 1% annual increase in KS leads to a drop of 0.132 percentage points per year in the prevalence of undernourishment, with about 40% of that effect mediated through gains in agricultural land productivity. These results indicate that KS supports poverty and hunger reduction through benefits on-farm and beyond it. They also suggest that there is room for strengthening the role of R&D KS productivity enhancing innovations. Given the current low levels of investments in R&D and resulting KS, increasing its levels will be critical, but that alone is not sufficient. Policy makers will have to rethink the way the innovations from R&D get scaled up and pa
y attention to the necessary complementary policies and investments that enable a sustainable pathway leading to greater productivity growth and development impacts.
The PIM approach assumes an infinite lag distribution that depends on the R&D investmentcharacteristics. It has been extensively used in the R&D literature (Hall, Mairesse and Mohnen 2009), andapplied to the analysis of agriculture by Esposti and Pierani (2003) and Nin-Pratt and Magalhaes (2018)
to calculate knowledge stocks (KS) from agricultural research (Nin-Pratt, 2021).The key underlying assumption behind the measurement of the returns to R&D is that a string of
R&D investments creates a stock of knowledge (KS) that yields returns into the future (Hall, Mairesse Insights from Agent-Based Modeling in the Indus, Mekong and Niger basins 
The CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystems (WLE) in conjunction with the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and partners is promoting a new approach to sustainable intensification in which healthy functioning ecosystems are seen as a prerequisite to agricultural development, food security and human well-being. Many of these ecosystems are water-based or water-related, and water-related ecosystems are also those most threatened by both human interventions and climate change.
Current water planning models are not equipped to adequately assess the interactions of ecosystems and economic development. If ecosystems are considered at all in these models, they are generally relegated to minimum flow constraints.
In this project, we use an agent-based modeling (ABM) approach to define key water- and related ecosystem services as active agents and let them ‘speak for themselves’. We then couple these agent based models with basin-scale hydrologic models to model basins as coupled human-natural systems. Agent-based modeling (ABM) differs from conventional modeling techniques, which often ignore heterogeneity among water users, assume an omniscient decision-maker and only consider ecosystems as constraints rather than active agents and benefit providers.
We will work in three focal regions and river basins under the CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystems (WLE): the Mekong, the Niger and the Indus.
There is a growing recognition among water resource managers that sustainable watershed management needs to not only account for the diverse ways humans benefit from the environment, but also incorporate the impact of human actions on the natural system. Coupled natural–human system modeling through explicit modeling of both natural and human behavior can help reveal the reciprocal interactions and co-evolution of the natural and human systems. This study develops a spatially scalable, generalized agent-based modeling (ABM) framework consisting of a process-based semi-distributed hydrologic model (SWAT) and a decentralized water system model to simulate the impacts of water resource management decisions that affect the food–water–energy–environment (FWEE) nexus at a watershed scale. Agents within a river basin are geographically delineated based on both political and watershed boundaries and represent key stakeholders of ecosystem services. Agents decide about the priority across three primary water uses: food production, hydropower generation and ecosystem health within their geographical domains. Agents interact with the environment (streamflow) through the SWAT model and interact with other agents through a parameter representing willingness to cooperate. The innovative two-way coupling between the water system model and SWAT enables this framework to fully explore the feedback of human decisions on the environmental dynamics and vice versa. To support non-technical stakeholder interactions, a web-based user interface has been developed that allows for role-play and participatory modeling. The generalized ABM framework is also tested in two key transboundary river basins, the Mekong River basin in Southeast Asia and the Niger River basin in West Africa, where water uses for ecosystem health compete with growing human demands on food and energy resources. We present modeling results for crop production, energy generation and violation of eco-hydrological indicators at both the agent and basin-wide levels to shed light on holistic FWEE management policies in these two basins.The Agricultural Investment Data Analyzer (AIDA) project develops a set of forward-looking planning and evaluation tools to help improving the efficiency, effectiveness and scaling up of rural development policies and projects. AIDA is a four-year project (2017-2021) funded by IFAD with co-financing from CGIAR-PIM and implemented by IFPRI* and other partners with a focus on Egypt, Jordan, Yemen, and Tunisia.
The ultimate goal of AIDA project is to influence the design and prioritization of policies and investments to enable rural people and refugees to overcome poverty and food insecurity in targeted MENA countries specifically. Consistent with its objectives, the project aims to have the following outcomes:
Policy and investment guidelines and tools will support IFAD and Partner Governments in the design and impact assessment of national strategies and rural investment projects.
Analysts in Egypt, Jordan, Yemen, and Tunisia will be enabled to independently perform AIDA-based policy simulations and evaluations.
Advocacy and policy-engagement will raise awareness and provide the evidence base for creating jobs and reducing rural poverty.
AIDA is innovative and easy to use — government officials, analysts, researchers, and investors design a package of investments and AIDA reports how the choices affect a country’s economy and population. As such, AIDA will help governments, donors, and other partners to take agricultural investment decisions and to strengthen policy dialogues.
IFPRI operates in Egypt in collaboration with ICARDA. The Linked Economic and Animal Systems (LEAS) model is a systems-based analytical approach linked with RIAPA through several handshake variables (price and quantities) depicting information flows both ways. The LEAS model was developed in response to major implications that emerge from the recent literature on livestock systems in developing countries, including the need for a livestock systems approach that accounts for the downstream linkages connecting producers and consumers, the reliance of the livestock sector development on the future trajectory of the broader economy, and the need for a holistic approach that helps prioritize livestock sector interventions. The LEAS model incorporates a well-disaggregated herd dynamics module (HDM) linked to RIAPA that in turn passes information to microsimulation modules that help trace changes in poverty, household consumption, and dietary diversity.
The HDM is a lifecycle (stock-flow) module that tracks annual herd/flock size disaggregated by age, sex, breed/strain, and agroecology zone. It estimates reproduction, births, deaths, and offtakes (slaughtering) for different types of animals (such as cattle, chickens, sheep, and goats). Given information on consumer demand for animal products and the profitability of animal offtake activities, the HDM estimates offtake level, remaining herd size, and annual feed requirement. Several policy interventions are embedded within the HDM, such as public-provision of medicines to improve animal health or access to improved feed to increase on-farm livestock productivity. Environmental variables such as forage supply and biophysical carrying capacity are incorporated to capture the impact of climate on herd stock and productivity. The HDM also incorporates parameters and variables for analyzing shocks (drought, disease, etc.) to the livestock system. The HDM is currently calibrated for cattle, but can easily be adapted to study other livestock systems including small ruminants and poultry.
The LEAS model has been used to assess the implications of national development scenarios on the livestock sector performance, and the response of cattle herds to weather shocks.
Virtual Knowledge Graphs (VKGs) have recently gained attention due to their flexible data model, which reduces the effort needed for integration across different, possibly heterogeneous, data sources.
In this webinar, Alessandro Mosca presents how to access scientific data stored in a (relational) database through the Virtual Knowledge Graph (VKG) approach. In such an approach, the data are exposed as a Knowledge Graph and enriched with semantic information coming from a domain ontology. The VKG approach is introduced by means of real-world scenarios, involving both scientific and business data and using the open-source VKG system Ontop.
Since legacy data are exposed as a Knowledge Graph, users can access the data by means of a more convenient vocabulary provided by the domain ontology, benefit from automated reasoning capabilities, and do not need to focus on how the data are actually stored. By relying on existing federation tools, Alessandro shows that the VKG approach can also be used to integrate multiple, heterogeneous, and possibly semi-structured and unstructured data sources.
Data-driven agronomy refers to an approach or a set of approaches using digital technology to source, analyze and translate data into timely, practical and context-specific information to help farmers make the best choices for their farms.
As a community of practice we aim to collectively strengthen the innovation of technology and big data to tackle an array of agricultural challenges – including the closing of yield gaps – to reduce hunger and poverty and transform global agriculture.
The data-driven agronomy CoP, led by CIAT, builds capacity among farmers, researchers, rural advisory service providers and CGIAR strategic partners. This space can be used as a discussion area, share and request relevant information and contribute towards building the community as a whole.
The CGIAR Open Access and Data Management Policy was ratified by all CGIAR Centers in November 2013, a commitment by CGIAR to the widespread diffusion and reuse of its research and development activities as international public goods. The task of managing CGIAR research outputs in conformance with the Policy has been a key responsibility of Center information specialists and data managers. As part of the Open Access, Open Data Initiative (2014 – 2016) and the Big Data Platform’s Organize Module (2017 to present), these information and data managers organized themselves into the Data Management Task Force (DMTF) and the Open Access Working Group (OAWG). In November 2018 members of these groups voted to consolidate into the Information and Data Management Community of Practice (also known as the IDM CoP).
The CoP works through its Working Groups to develop and implement common standards, tools, and approaches, and already engages with external entities on a variety of fronts (including but not limited to Harvard University for Dataverse repository concerns; Earlham Institute for the COPO data annotation tool; FAO, GODAN, RDA, and other organizations on agrisementic standards). The CoP works to enhance capacity and culture change around data management at Centers, and helps the CGIAR community stay current in a rapidly changing data and publications landscape.
Over the past five years, members of the IDM CoP have worked together to tackle cultural and technical challenges to enable CGIAR’s data assets to be increasingly open as well as FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable). We welcome those beyond CGIAR who would like to join us to enhance cross-learning on all sides, to work collaboratively in implementing common standards and approaches towards open and FAIR data, and to leverage opportunities for broader linkages and exchange.
Livestock Data for Decisions (LD4D) is a Community of Practice launched in January 2017 that aims to drive informed livestock decision making through the better use of existing data and analyses.
LD4D brings together livestock and data modellers with project implementers and decision makers from industry, the public sector and NGOs. Through cataloging and organizing livestock data, making it more discoverable and digestible, LD4D ultimately aims to guide investments that will improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers in low and middle-income countries.
The Platform embraces the power of big data analytics, supporting CGIAR as it becomes a leader in generating actionable data-driven insights for stakeholders.
It builds capacity throughout CGIAR to generate and manage big data, assisting CGIAR and its partners’ efforts to comply with open access / open data principles to unlock important research and datasets. It empowers researchers to strengthen data analytical capacity, developing practical big data tools and services in a coordinated way. It also addresses critical gaps, both organizational and technical, expanding the horizon of CGIAR research.