Investigacion 3
Many of CIAT’s success stories were made possible thanks to the Center’s deep ties to the CGIAR research portfolio. Much of our climate work falls under the CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS), which is led by CIAT and is one of CGIAR’s four Global Integrating Programs. CIAT researchers are major contributors to ten of the CGIAR System’s programs, which span priority themes from specific staple crops and livestock systems to whole ecosystems and multi-level policy. CIAT co-leads the CGIAR Platform for Big Data in Agriculture, which is one of the three Global Integrating Programs that underpin research across the 15 CGIAR centers. Our researchers work closely with the other two, the Excellence in Breeding Platform and the Genebank Platform. These strategic relationships across CGIAR allow CIAT and the System’s Centers, which form the world’s largest agricultural innovation network, to remain at the forefront of research into major issues facing the globe today.
Big Data: Decoding the data ecosystemThe CGIAR Platform for Big Data in Agriculture was created in 2017 to coalesce the global, data-driven capabilities of CGIAR to both leverage and shape the digital transformations happening in our sector. It has been a multifaceted and rewarding challenge as we aim to become more skillful data stewards, build new alliances, and develop innovation strategies for digital agriculture. 
In 2017, the newly created Platform engaged with a broad range of actors to build an Alliance for a Data Revolution, opening the way for new collaborations to shape the future of digital agriculture in developing economies. Finding the right mix of data, actors, analysis, and action to build resilient food systems is a complex problem. During 2018, we learned a few things about how to address it. To find out more, check out Big Data’s annual report.
The CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security, which is led by CIAT, has reached some three million farming households with climate-smart agriculture (CSA) techniques. 
In 2018, this included 900,000 recipients of climate information services in Ghana, Colombia, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Rwanda. In other advances related to the Sustainable Development Goals, an independent study demonstrated how CGIAR technical advice and knowledge have contributed to climate-related improvements in at least 65 large agricultural projects or programs in low- and middle-income countries supported by World Bank grants and loans. Find about these achievements and more in CCAFS annual report.
Following the Convention, the Platform began discussions with companies offering cloud computing and storage services (exploration of use-cases and collaborations with analytic and cloud services providers including Google, Microsoft, Amazon, and IBM is ongoing), data analytical infrastructures (e.g. University of Minnesota Supercomputing Institute, IBM), machine learning service providers (Google TensorFlow, IBM Watson), and partners providing new pathways to data analysis or impact at scale (e.g. the Digital Impact Alliance to liaise with the mobile industry).
Finding the right mix of data, actors, analysis, and action to build resilient food systems is a complex problem. During 2018, we learned a few things about how to address it:The sheer volume, multiplicity, and variability of big data makes the organization of data challenging. There is a need to find solutions for challenges related to storage, usage, and dissemination of data, to accelerate research and build more data-driven capabilities across CGIAR and the agriculture sector as a whole.
Increasingly, we’re not talking just about open data but rather about FAIR, or Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable data. We realized that in order to fully reap the benefits of Big Data we needed to provide support to researchers and individual data centers and to clarify such questions as: How are we going to make data findable? What kinds of standards might we use to ensure data interoperability?
The Organize module of the Platform for Big Data in Agriculture is an extension of the work begun through this initiative to support data management efforts in different ways across CGIAR.”
In 2018, the Platform made significant progress in organizing big data and making it FAIR for users in the agricultural sphere and beyond.
Centers organized 34 trainings and 18 data sprints through Platform support in 2018, with almost 40% of the 1000+ uploaded datasets a direct result of these data sprints.
We developed guidelines on complying with privacy and ethics considerations in research data management, facilitating regulatory compliance to reduce privacy-related organizational risk.
The Platform supported Centers to develop policies, trainings and tools in on topics including: semantics for data annotation; metadata entry and compliance tools; licensing, and best practices for privacy/ethics compliance in research data management.
Datasets and publications discoverable through GARDIAN almost doubled in 2018, with several new geospatial, filtering, and querying/data mining features implemented.
The Platform supported several key multi-Center working groups within the CGIAR Data and Information Management CoP to facilitate progress and co-learning towards making data sets FAIR and publishing them to open repositories.
The stakes are so high for the CGIAR Platform for Big Data in Agriculture: it has promised to transform all CGIAR’s scientific information into a powerful scientific data engine for global food security. An engine that will give everyone “…power to predict, prescribe, and produce more food, more sustainably.”
At the recent 2018 Big Data in Agriculture Convention: Decoding the Data Ecosystem, a key milestone was reached. Over 400 delegates from around the world witnessed the new version of the GARDIAN system being unveiled: almost one hundred thousand publications, over two thousand and five hundred data sets; all can be discovered, accessed and reused. This is the first solid step towards making all the scientific knowledge the CGIAR network generates openly discoverable, accessible and usable.
Kudos to the whole Big Data Platform team, as well as our people at Agroknow who supported them, for this major achievement.
Make it simple, straightforward and obvious that you can use it to discover everything — from the historical knowledge residing in legacy systems to the new scientific discoveries that the flagship research programmes make. Whatever the CGIAR network does, make it discoverable and accessible. All scientists, all projects, all publications, all data sets, all models, all software. Everything appropriately described and classified, at the world’s fingertips.
Make it possible to combine research results that have been produced from different teams, at different locations, at different times, with different instruments. Extract scientific data from publications, combine results from different studies to produce new results, revisit old experiments and perform new ones using the same input data. All research data sets, all measured variables, all applied methods, all tested and proven models. Everything into a machine readable and interoperable format over which data analysis algorithms will be easily executed.
Make it possible to showcase the impact that each CGIAR project and scientist is making. Use research data to make scientific arguments, tell data-powered stories about the people who stand to benefit, enable data journalism that will be based on actual, proven scientific knowledge. Everything that CGIAR scientists are doing, easily communicated and understood by donors, policy makers, farmers and citizens alike.
In 2018, the CGIAR Big Data Platform made an important step forward. In 2019, the next grand challenges await us.
