Standard crop varieties do not always rise to the challenges of modern agriculture: climate change, nutrition, and higher productivity on farms. CIAT develops varieties of common bean, cassava and tropical forages (the plants livestock eat) that are superior. Because of the 68,000 accessions stored in CIAT’s seed bank, scientists around the world accelerate crop development to improve livelihoods, diets and farm resilience to climate change.
In 2018, CIAT’s Agrobiodiversity team and our partners made significant advances in our research agenda. We tackled crop disease in Asia and Latin America with cutting-edge on-the-ground research and by tapping into the power of satellite imagery to detect affected areas. We continued to develop and deploy improved bean varieties that have higher than normal nutrient content, withstand weather extremes and are highly productive. We entered into 
a variety of new agreements with partners in the public and private sector, and expanded our use of digital agriculture tools to improve the livelihoods of farmers.
Since its discovery in 2015 in Cambodia, scientists, farmers, and policymakers have closely monitored the advance of Sri Lankan cassava mosaic virus (SLCMV), which poses a significant threat to one of Southeast Asia’s major cash crops.
Scientists at CIAT and collaborators are working to better understand this disease and breed SLCMV-resistant cassava. A high-level meeting last year brought together scientists and officials from Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam to better coordinate efforts around this emerging threat. Separately, SLCMV figured in a meeting of global experts convened by CIAT to discuss a 
global monitoring system for crop diseases. To increase impact and expedite delivery of research findings, the rice, cassava, forages and bean programs finalized new collaboration agreements with public and private institutions. A five-year agreement with Colombia’s rice growers association, Fedearroz, will fund joint work. The cassava program agreed to work with Ingredion, a U.S. food company, to develop waxy cassava. 
The forage program finalized a deal with Papalotla, a Mexican seed company, to commercialize hybrid Brachiaria, an environmentally friendly grass for cattle grazing. USAID funded the bean program under the CGIAR Research Program on Grain Legumes and Dryland Cereals. 
New varieties of biofortified beans, which contain higher iron and zinc concentrations than regular beans, were released in Colombia and Panama. Jointly developed with Agrosavia, Colombia’s agricultural research organization, the new bean for Colombia’s Caribbean region is also pest resistant, drought tolerant and has a shorter cooking time than regular beans. The two varieties for Panama were developed with IDIAP, the country’s agriculture research institute, 
and were shared with 14 farmers organizations. These beans were developed with HarvestPlus as part of its global initiative to reduce micronutrient deficiency through improved crops. 
The average cassava yield of 21 t/ha in India compares favorably with a world average of 10 t/ha. On-farm trials have revealed that it is possible to increase yields to more than 30t/ha through more intensive management. The Cassava Technology Transfer Programme (CTTP) in India has passed through various phases, concentrating mainly on production technologies and of late on processing technologies.&#xA;CTTP started in the early 1970s with the release of high-yielding varieties of cassava (HYVC) and by conducting National Demonstrations in farmers' fields. These indicated that HYVC with intensive management could produce yields of more than 35 t/ha. During 1976, CTCRI (with financial assistance from IDRC) implemented an Operational Research Project in a village near Trivandrum with the main objective of identifying operational constraints faced by small farmers adopting cassava production technologies. In 1979 CTCRI implemented the Lab-to-Land Programme (LLP) of ICAR, with the main aim of creating a direct linkage between technology generators and small and marginal farmers. This program has directly benefitted more than 1000 farmers in 14 villages of three states. The LLP initially gave emphasis to production technologies, but is now also concentrating on transferring processing technologies by a series of demonstrations and training programs. All these CTTP attempts have proved effective in terms of increasing the adoption level of cassava technology by more than 40% of the farmers.&#xA;The transfer of technologies to a larger mass was also attempted through a functional linkage with development departments through systematic training programs in order to equip the extension personnel with the latest technologies in cassava production. Besides the efforts made by CTCRI, the State Departments of Agriculture through their extension network are engaged in the transfer of technology through demonstrations and farmers' training programs.&#xA;The socio-economic impact of CTTP is very encouraging considering that a) cassava yields in the country have increased at an annual rate of about 1% since 1970; b) the HYVC have diffused to more than three fourth of the cassava area in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh and to some pockets of Kerala; c) the majority of farmers have accepted most of the recommended practices.&#xA;The transfer of technology in the case of processing and utilization of cassava could not be done in an effective manner for want of an organized extension system for processing technologies. However, attempts are being made to diffuse the developed products and processing technologies through the Lab-to-Land Programmes, public exhibitions, food festivals, farmers' meetings etc
