In times of scarcity, farmers resort to preserving food through anaerobic fermentation processes, known as silage. Once the silo is opened, the substrate is aerobically stable if it retains its nutritional integrity when opening. This is the result of an acidic environment that restricts the deleterious effects of the action of pathogenic microorganisms, expressed as indicators of stability to aerobic exposure. One of the empirical problems faced by the producer is to solve the question of how to avoid deterioration of the silage once it is opened, for which this research points to the resistance in the period of aerobic exposure (PEA) of a silage of Pennisetum purpureum (PP) with different levels of substitution of Tithonia diversifolia (TD). The study was conducted at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture in Colombia. With a 90-day fermentation silage, a seven-day aerobic stability test was carried out, using a kilogram silage at different proportions (%) of TD/PP: 100/0, 67/33, 33/67 and 0/100 enriched with two Lactobacillus-based additives. The change in dry matter, temperature and pH was measured, finding stability to aerobic exposure. The role of TD is remarkable once the silage enters the PEA due to the buffer capacity that buffers the change in pH once the silo is opened, generating greater aerobic stability.
Eastern Africa is a significant region of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) production and genetic diversity. Insect pests are a major biotic constraint in subsistence crop production systems. Bean fly (Ophiomyia spencerella) is a serious pest of beans in eastern Africa highlands. Breeding efforts focus on combining adaptability traits with user preferred seed types. However, lack of information on molecular markers linked to genes modulating bean fly resistance has slowed breeding progress. The objectives were to: (i) characterize genetic diversity and uncover putative bean fly resistant genotypes within diverse seed types and market classes and (ii) identify genomic regions controlling bean fly resistance using genome-wide association analysis (GWAS). A set of 276 diverse genotypes comprising local landraces and varieties from Kenya alongside introductions from International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), were assembled. The germplasm represented varied bean production ecologies and seed types. Genetic diversity conforming to Andean and Mesoamerican genepools was established. Out of 276 genotypes evaluated, 150 were Andean, 74 were Mesoamerican and 52 were admixed. Twenty-two genotypes were resistant to bean fly. Association mapping results for stem damage score and plant mortality identified six significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on chromosomes Pv01 and Pv09. The most significant SNP marker was 12 kilobases downstream of Phvul.001G074900 gene with LOD score > 4.0 hence in linkage disequilibrium with the postulated gene. The identified candidate gene is pleiotropic and modulates both flowering time and plant responses to stress. These findings are a key step towards marker-enabled breeding in common bean for sub-Saharan Africa.
Biofortification breeding for three important micronutrients for human health, namely, iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), and provitamin A (PVA), has gained momentum in recent years. HarvestPlus, along with its global consortium partners, enhances Fe, Zn, and PVA in staple crops. The strategic and applied research by HarvestPlus is driven by product-based impact pathway that integrates crop breeding, nutrition research, impact assessment, advocacy, and communication to implement country-specific crop delivery plans. Targeted breeding has resulted in 393 biofortified crop varieties by the end of 2020, which have been released or are in testing in 63 countries, potentially benefitting more than 48 million people. Nevertheless, to reach more than a billion people by 2030, future breeding lines that are being distributed by Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) centers and submitted by National Agricultural Research System (NARS) to varietal release committees should be biofortified. It is envisaged that the mainstreaming of biofortification traits will be driven by high-throughput micronutrient phenotyping, genomic selection coupled with speed breeding for accelerating genetic gains. It is noteworthy that targeted breeding gradually leads to mainstreaming, as the latter capitalizes on the progress made in the former. Efficacy studies have revealed the nutritional significance of Fe, Zn, and PVA biofortified varieties over non-biofortified ones. Mainstreaming will ensure the integration of biofortified traits into competitive varieties and hybrids developed by private and public sectors. The mainstreaming strategy has just been initiated in select CGIAR centers, namely, International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), and International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT). This review will present the key successes of targeted breeding and its relevance to the mainstreaming approaches to achieve scaling of biofortification to billions sustainably.International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) has a long history of collaboration with Japanese institutions to develop improved crop varieties and adopt agricultural technologies with pioneering approaches for farmers’ benefit. Since 1972, Japan has enjoyed a long history of successful cooperation with the CGIAR (formerly the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research) after becoming its 22nd Member to meet global challenges such as climate change affecting agriculture and food systems in diplomacy through Japan’s advanced science and technology. This long-standing collaboration adopts agricultural technologies developed in Japan and promotes agricultural innovation through cutting-edge technologies such as remote sensing for Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) that will provide novel solutions to the agriculture and food sectors in the tropics. Nowadays, it is presumed that this approach to data-driven agriculture realization will help establish a sustainable agroecosystem with increased agricultural productivity and sustainability by adapting or mitigating the effects of climate change and efficient use of natural resources and establishing a sustainable food value chain. This review highlights the research collaborations and new opportunities on advanced breeding technologies and digital innovations towards data-driven agriculture. In conjunction, we present a potential collaborative research between CIAT and Japan, prioritizing the current and future challenges in agriculture and food systems Cowpea is a staple food crop and a primary source of protein for millions of people in developing countries. Although the crop is primarily cultivated for its mature grains, immature green pods and young green leaves can be consumed as a vegetable. The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) was established in 1967; the organisation’s extensive research has developed many improved varieties of most staple food crops to benefit people across Africa. For example, more than 100 IITA-bred materials and numerous germplasm lines of cowpea from the Genetic Resource Center (GRC) of IITA which is a mandate crop have been distributed across sub-Saharan Africa. Currently, IITA GRC houses one of the largest global cowpea collections of over 17,000 accessions from 89 countries. Here, we review the diverse approaches undertaken in cowpea research to evaluate the wide genetic resources of IITA for the development of new varieties and their successful dissemination. Notably, Japanese scientists have made constructive contributions to the progress in cowpea research at IITA over the past 50 years. Finally, in terms of research for development, collaborative measures among various national and international stakeholders for the appropriate delivery and social implementation of research achievements in the future
The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) Forest Reserve is a secondary rainforest that has been protected since 1965. It serves as a refuge for many species that were once common but have declined, due to urbanisation and population pressure. The study was conducted to assess the natural regeneration status and soil seed bank composition of the Forest Reserve. Two transects of 500 m were laid out using systematic line transect sampling technique. Ten sample plots of 25 m × 25 m (625 m2) on each line transect were used to identify tree species. Subplots of 5 m × 5 m for shrub and climber species, as well as 1 m × 1 m for herb species were demarcated at the corners and centre of the main plots for identification. Quadrats (15 × 15 cm) were laid out at the corners of the plots and at the centre for soil collection at depths of 0–5 cm, 5–10 cm and 10–15 cm. The regeneration status of species was determined based on sample size of seedlings, saplings and mature trees. Floristic compositions in the Forest Reserve included 58 tree, 26 shrub, 19 climber and 6 herb species. The natural regeneration status of the Forest Reserve was good with high numbers of seedlings (465/ha; 37.05%) and saplings (431/ha; 34.34%) compared with mature trees (359/ha; 28.61%). The families observed to be most abundant in the regeneration were Malvaceae, Moraceae and Apocynaceae. A total of 21 species was recorded using the seedling emergence technique. There were 11 herbs, six climbers, one shrub and three tree species. Similarity between standing vegetation and seed bank was low (0.067). The study revealed a poor soil seed bank composition, suggesting that regeneration of woody species from the persistent seed bank would be hampered if the standing vegetation is degraded.That plants native to one region of the world often fare poorly when transferred to another region has long been known. It seems odd, therefore, that the Green Revolution (GR) programmes of the 1950s and into the ‘60s sought to transfer temperate zone technology to the tropics. Proponents of the GR, however, justified this mistake by arguing that they had had little choice. For knowledge of tropical agriculture was at that time largely confined to export crops while GR programmes focused upon food staples. An understanding of how to transfer technology to the tropics, they maintained, was only achieved in the 1960s at the new international agricultural research centres. Both of these claims, however, are highly misleading. By the 1950s the field of tropical agriculture had much to say about staples which would have been relevant to early GR programmes. Moreover, it was not until the late ‘60s that the new IARCs began to address fully the problem of transfer, and by the early ‘70s these efforts had lost momentum. It would appear, therefore, that those planning the early GR programmes were either unaware of existing knowledge about tropical agriculture or knew but chose to ignore it.The objective of this study was to design two diagrammatic scales for the evaluation of black node disease (Stagonosporopsis hortensis and Boeremia spp.) in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). The developed scales corresponded to logarithmic intervals (SADL) of seven levels and equal intervals (SADE) of nine levels. These scales were compared to the scale developed by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), which corresponds to a descriptive scale (NoSAD). In the scale validation the accuracy, precision, and concordance of repeatability were determined using Lin’s concordance correlation coefficient, whereas inter-rater reproducibility was determined by the overall concordance correlation coefficient (OCCC). It was observed that with the use of the proposed scales, reproducibility and repeatability were significantly improved for inexperienced raters, and reproducibility was improved in the case of experienced raters. Thus, the designed standard area diagrams with equal and logarithmic intervals are a useful too, Globally, rainfed crop yields are about 50% lower than yields obtained under irrigated conditions. The low productivity of rainfed agricultural systems is the main factor that accentuates hunger, poverty, unemployment, and illegal migration in Central America and other regions in Latin America. Because of rainfall dependence, farmers can cultivate their crops during only one growing season per year, with high vulnerability to periodic droughts and flooding. To face the challenge of a sustainable food supply in the context of increasing food demand, since the mid-2000s, FLAR (Latin American Fund for Irrigated Rice), a public-private alliance of organizations from 17 Latin American countries CFC (Common Fund for Commodities), and CIAT (International Center for Tropical Agriculture) have been investing resources and efforts to sustainably intensify and diversify high-risk rainfed production systems through capturing runoff rainwater in reservoirs to transform those systems into highly profitable irrigated systems. This article summarizes concepts, results, and experiences from pilot farms using water harvesting in Nicaragua and Mexico, where irrigation combined with smart crop management practices allowed small-/medium-scale farmers to increase their yields of rice, maize, beans, and high-value crops by two to four times in comparison with historical yields obtained under rainfed conditions.Genebanks play an essential role in a world where agricultural biodiversity has been lost from farming habitats, malnutrition persists as global population continues to rise, and farm productivity is vulnerable to climate change. We demonstrate the importance of the genebank of the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) to the development of seven iron-biofortified varieties of climbing bean and the impact of their adoption on farm households in Rwanda. First, we link iron-biofortified varieties of climbing beans directly to the genebank through pedigree analysis and key informant interviews with the breeders who developed them. Second, we apply various econometric models to test the impact of adoption on yield, consumption, and purchase of beans by farming households in Rwanda, building upon previous research on bush beans. We based the analysis on a dataset of nearly 1400 households, collected in 2015 by HarvestPlus. We found that the scope of the genetic diversity housed in the bean collection at CIAT was fundamental to developing successful iron-biofortified beans. We found significant positive effects of climbing varieties on yields; however, we did not find significant effects on the amounts of beans consumed by households or bean purchases. Our results suggest that it is possible to trace the journey of an accession from its introduction in the genebank to its final use by farmers and consumers. Positive effects on yield generate incentives for adoption of iron-biofortified bean varieties, potentially boosting micronutrient consumption. Further research is needed to understand the factors affecting the adoption and impacts of climbing bean varieties.
While interest in the potential of tropical and subtropical forage (TSTF) germplasm for improved livestock production commenced earlier, it was not until the 1950s and 1960s that plant collecting and research on diversity and utilization of grasses and legumes reached significant global momentum. The subsequent engagement in pasture and forage research by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) centres, such as the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA; 1974–1995)/International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI; since 1995) from the 1970s onwards, built on the advances made by national centres in Australia, the United States of America, Kenya and elsewhere. By 1990–2000, TSTFs were recognized for contributing to a range of commercial and smallholder livestock production systems in Latin America, Australia, Southeast Asia, South Asia and Africa. However, their use, the value of further research and the need to maintain the very large and diverse collections held in international and national genebanks were challenged by this time because of perceived environmental risks, questions about whether or not past achievements could be bettered and the high costs of maintaining genebanks. Since then, the decline in investment and the quality of conservation and curation has been a relatively rapid process and reached the crisis point of today in just 20–25 years. This article traces 70 years of expansion and then decline of plant collecting, conservation, research and commercialization of TSTFs as a new commodity and examines the reasons for the sharp changes that have taken place. In a second article (this issue), the argument is made for swift and drastic action to prevent critical germplasm from being lost, to enable genebanks to play their crucial and unique role in underpinning improving production and productivity in livestock systems and to provide key germplasm tools to achieve environmental benefits.
Introduction. The Colombian Altillanura is going through a process of transformation, marked by the expansion of its agricultural border. In the region, it is being implemented a research agenda that seeks to develop and validate promising technologies for the improvement of productivity and sustainability of agricultural production systems. Economic evaluation plays an important role in prioritizing activities, allocating resources, and guiding agricultural research towards rural development objectives. Objective. The objective of this work was to implement an ex-ante economic evaluation to estimate the results and potential impacts of the new promising L23 rice line improved for the Colombian Altillanura. Materials and methods. The impact was measured on the L23 rice genotype, which was developed as a collaboration between the Colombian Corporation of Agricultural Research (AGROSAVIA) and the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), for the Colombian Altillanura. The ex-ante evaluation combined a partial budgets analysis with information from experimental tests and economic surpluses model. Results. The two methodological approaches were consistent and showed that with the adoption of the L23 genotype at least 29.7%, a probability of 17.1 % could be achieved for rice producers in the Altillanura due to the expected increase in crop yield. However, a sensitivity analysis of the assumptions warns that a low potential level of adoption along with non-significant changes in yield would make the research and development of the new genotype economically unfeasible. Conclusion. For the research, development and, introduction of the L23 rice genotype to be profitable, it is required a diffusion process that allows the reproduction of the seed and facilitates the access to producers, so that they can reach higher levels of adoption.The rapidly expanding urban population in intertropical African cities that lives in poverty in informal settlements poses major problems for urban health, safety and risk reduction. Such settlements often encroach on floodplains and wetlands, restricting the space available to convey and store flood waters Climate change and the expansion impermeable urban surfaces are contributing to increased magnitude and frequency of flooding. The use of green infrastructure in Africa to alleviate climate change impacts, including for sustainable urban drainage, is widely advocated. Many consider that urban agriculture can be part of such green infrastructure. However, although municipal plans often envisage removal of settlements from floodplains and do not encourage urban agriculture, efforts to bulldoze dwellings and move people from the settlements close to city centres are strongly resisted and can become politically contested. Improvements in urban drainage require participatory, multi-sectoral planning and implementation. In many African cities three different levels of action occur, frequently without considering interests at any other level: municipal drainage and floodplain clearance plans; international NGO and consultant led schemes; and community-based small scale actions for immediate relief and protection. Political allegiances cut across the three levels, showing that without holistic views across all scales of the political, social, economic and environmental aspects of these intertropical African cities, widespread use of floodplain and wetland green infrastructure for flood hazard reduction will be difficult to achieve.Iron and zinc are essential micronutrients for normal human growth and development and are commonly deficient in diets of the most vulnerable. Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), one of the leading staple foods in East and Central Africa, is a valuable source of quality protein and micronutrients, specifically iron, zinc, and vitamins. Natural variation in micronutrient concentration exists among bean germplasm. Identification of varieties with high iron and zinc seed concentration (FESEED/ZNSEED) for promotion in food systems and utilisation in breeding programs is one strategy of addressing the problem of malnutrition in Africa. Three hundred and four lines sourced from the International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and its partners through the Pan Africa Bean Research Alliance (PABRA), were evaluated for agronomic traits, disease response, yield, FESEED, and ZNSEED. They were organized in four groups; PABRA fast track, Rwanda seeds of hope, HarvestPlus regional nutrition nursery and Uganda collection. Six checks were included; a universal high FESEED climbing bean (MIB465), low FESEED regional climbing bean (Decelaya), universal low FESEED bush bean (DOR500), regional high FESEED bush bean (RWR2154), and two yield checks (CAL96 and Vuninkingi for bush and climbing bean). The FESEED checks were selected based on their relative performance to other genotypes in several experiments by a community of bean breeders through the H+ program. Field trials were established at the National Agricultural Laboratories, Kawanda from 2011 to 2013. Days to maturity and flowering, vigor, yield, and reaction to diseases were evaluated. Micronutrient analysis was conducted using X-ray Fluorescence (XRF) and data confirmed using Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry (ICP-AES). Lines were significantly different (P≤0.05) in all the parameters assessed. FESEED and ZNSEED varied highly between seasons and among the entries ranging between 36-90 ppm and 24-47 ppm across the four nurseries. Twenty-six lines were selected as high iron beans (HIBs) based on XRF data; 12 of these were confirmed as HIB based on ICP data that is more accurate. Of these, two bush beans, Jesca (large purple speckled) and RW547 (medium grey) and two climbing beans, CAB2 (medium white seeded) and Ndimirakaguja (small cream) were the most superior in FESEED across seasons. With the exception of CAB2, these lines were relatively high yielding > 2000 kgha -1 . There was no significant correlation of FESEED or ZNSEED to yield. Nonetheless, FESEED and ZNSEED positively (0.59) correlated indicating that selection for superiority in one variable would result in a high value in the other.Background: Molecular characterization is important for efficient utilization of germplasm and development of improved varieties. In the present study, we investigated the genetic purity, relatedness and population structure of 265 maize inbred lines from the Ethiopian Institute of Agricultural Research (EIAR), the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT) and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) using 220,878 single nucleotide polymorphic (SNP) markers obtained using genotyping by sequencing (GBS). Results: Only 22% of the inbred lines were considered pure with <5% heterogeneity, while the remaining 78% of the inbred lines had a heterogeneity ranging from 5.1 to 31.5%. Pairwise genetic distances among the 265 inbred lines varied from 0.011 to 0.345, with 89% of the pairs falling between 0.301 and 0.345. Only <1% of the pairs had a genetic distance lower than 0.200, which included 14 pairs of sister lines that were nearly identical. Relative kinship analysis showed that the kinship coefficients for 59% of the pairs of lines was close to zero, which agrees with the genetic distance estimates. Principal coordinate analysis, discriminant analysis of principal components (DAPC) and the model-based population structure analysis consistently suggested the presence of three groups, which generally agreed with pedigree information (genetic background). Although not distinct enough, the SNP markers showed some level of separation between the two CIMMYT heterotic groups A and B established based on pedigree and combining ability information. Conclusions: The high level of heterogeneity detected in most of the inbred lines suggested the requirement for purification or further inbreeding except those deliberately maintained at early inbreeding level. The genetic distance and relative kinship analysis clearly indicated the uniqueness of most of the inbred lines in the maize germplasm available for breeders in the mid-altitude maize breeding program of Ethiopia. Results from the present study facilitate the maize breeding work in Ethiopia and germplasm exchange among breeding programs in Africa. We suggest the incorporation of high density molecular marker information in future heterotic group assignments.
Low and declining soil fertility has been recognized for a long time as a major impediment to intensifying agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Consequently, from the inception of international agricultural research, centres operating in SSA have had a research programme focusing on soil and soil fertility management, including the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA). The scope, content, and approaches of soil and soil fertility management research have changed over the past decades in response to lessons learnt and internal and external drivers and this paper uses IITA as a case study to document and analyse the consequences of strategic decisions taken on technology development, validation, and ultimately uptake by smallholder farmers in SSA. After an initial section describing the external environment within which soil and soil fertility management research is operating, various dimensions of this research area are covered: (i) ‘strategic research’, ‘Research for Development’, partnerships, and balancing acts, (ii) changing role of characterization due to the expansion in geographical scope and shift from soils to farms and livelihoods, (iii) technology development: changes in vision, content, and scale of intervention, (iv) technology validation and delivery to farming communities, and (v) impact and feedback to the technology development and validation process. Each of the above sections follows a chronological approach, covering the last five decades (from the late 1960s till today). The paper ends with a number of lessons learnt which could be considered for future initiatives aiming at developing and delivering improved soil and soil fertility management practices to smallholder farming communities in SSA.
In Colombia, as in many other countries, the effects of climate change are increasingly evident. One sector that has been particularly hard hit is agriculture. In this sector, unanticipated weather shifts and extended drought periods have created major challenges for the country’s farms, perhaps especially for small, independently owned farms. The Aclímate Colombia project is a cross-sector partnership led by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), a civil society organization, with private-sector industry groups and government actors. The platform (available at aclimatecolombia.org) leverages a diversity of data sources, including many open government datasets, to help farmers understand how to better navigate shifting weather patterns. Although still relatively young, Aclímate Colombia has already had a tangible impact and received widespread recognition. It is a powerful example of how data-sharing across sectors—along with the use of sector-relevant intermediaries—can take high-level data science insights and translate them into concrete, actionable information, in the process helping farmers increase their livelihoods.