Several adoption models have been developed to explain the dynamics behind the uptake of new technologies in
food-production systems. However, the literature has yet to consider a range of external forces that affect
farmers’ decision-making processes. We argue that climate change and institutions are latent explanatory variables that require attention in the literature on aquatic-based innovations. Our aim is to conduct an ex-ante
analysis focusing on these two external forces in the context of aquaculture and the adoption of aquaponics
technology in Colombia. We use an embedded case-study design incorporating a qualitative and exploratory
approach and employ two categories of fish-farming production systems as units of analysis. We triangulate our
findings using non-probability sampling techniques and use our findings as a benchmark to discuss the potential
adoption of aquaponics technology. Our findings suggest that fluctuations in rainfall and drought are the most
important climate variables influencing negatively fish farming activities. Furthermore, we find that the complex
institutional structures involved create unequal informal mechanisms among fish-farming production systems.
We argue for context-specific designs when considering the adoption of aquaponics and conclude that, while fishfarming production systems encounter these external forces differently, heterogeneity also exists within systems,
revealing intricacies worth considering. The term ‘innovation’ has been widely used as a constellation of
processes, technologies, and ideas that are new or unknown to people in
a distinct area or social system (Rogers, 1983). Recent studies show that
innovations are urgently needed to address sustainability challenges in
food-production systems (IPCC, 2018; Porter et al., 2014). Technological innovations in particular have attracted a great deal of attention, as
they represent a promising path to sustainable food production (FAO,
2014a). Thus, there has been a growing interest in the field of
innovation-adoption research (Feder and Umali, 1993; Van Oorschot
et al., 2018).
Early innovation-adoption research focused primarily on organizational and technical progress based on what we in this paper denote as
conventional approaches (see e.g., Taherdoost, 2018). Conventional approaches have their roots in the field of information systems, business
management, and economics. They have guided many researchers
trying to explain innovation at the firm or individual level and have
yielded archetypal variables that are consistent with their predictive and
explanatory intents. As such, several theories and adoption models have
been developed to unfold the dynamics behind the appropriation of new
technologies (Taherdoost, 2018; Wisdom et al., 2013).
A representative example comes from the literature on diffusion and
innovation, an approach commonly used to explain adoption rates
among members of a social system (Rogers, 1983). Broadly, this stream
of literature has sought to clarify an individual’s decision-making process, from gaining knowledge of an innovation to implementation and
use. This process concerns several factors that have been hypothesized
to influence the adoption outcome. Overall, factors primarily focus on
adopters’ characteristics, innovation attributes, and communication
channels, offering valuable lenses for conceptualizing adoption and the
entry points by which an innovation will be judged (Rogers, 1983).
Other predominant models attempt to predict the intention to change
behavior through cognitive variables, such as subjective norms, perceptions, and attitudes (Ajzen, 1991; Davis, 1989). Typically, these
models focus on attitudinal and technological aspects to describe the
relationship between adoption and the perceived usefulness and ease of
use of an innovation.
Due to their multidisciplinary nature, conventional approaches have
been widely applied in the context of agricultural innovations. According to Meijer et al. (2015), scholarship can be said to deal with the
intrinsic and extrinsic factors that influence the uptake of agricultural
technologies. Rooted in behavioral theories (see e.g., Ajzen, 1991), the
literature on intrinsic factors focuses on explaining farmers’
decision-making processes using cognitive variables, such as perceptions, and affective variables, for example, attitudes (see e.g., Njankoua
Wandji et al., 2012 and Despotovi´c et al., 2019 respectively). Scholars
studying extrinsic factors, conversely, employ economic and technology
acceptance models to explain the appropriation of agricultural technologies through socio-demographic variables, such as income, and
technological variables, for example, perceived ease of use (Davis, 1989;
Rogers, 1983).
Important findings from empirical studies on aquatic-based innovations reveal a series of variables that are fundamental for farmers’
decision-making (Table 1). Conventionally, researchers use innovation
or behavioral theories to measure predetermined variables against
adoption (see e.g., Blythe et al., 2017; Silva et al., 2020). Alternatively,
researchers design integrated models that incorporate constructs from
different approaches to develop a more comprehensive picture of the
multidimensional factors that influence adoption (see e.g., Brugere
et al., 2020; Joffre et al., 2018, 2017; Kumar et al., 2018; Ndah et al.,
2011). In this context, some researchers use multivariate analysis or
regression models to quantify statistically the relationship between a
dependent variable (e.g., inclination to adopt) and independent variables (e.g., socioeconomic characteristics) (see e.g., Gupta et al., 1998;
Bosma et al., 2012; Ngoc et al., 2016; Nwaobiala, 2014; Ofuoku et al.,
2008).
Most conventional approaches have remained focused on technological attributes and socio-demographic characteristics and are yet to
shift beyond these factors. These factors, while meaningful for systemic
analyses, require further empirical inquiry when reviewing site-specific
socio-technical-ecological considerations. For this reason, it is not the
purpose of this study to conduct a systemic analysis but rather to
partially expand the perspectives of the conventional approach by
exploring the influence of external forces on aquatic-based innovations.
Thus, we argue that there is a need for conventional approaches to
engage in a broader dialog and address more thoroughly a range of
external forces that affect farmers’ decision-making.
We define external forces1 as those that operate beyond fish-farmers’
control at the systems and off-farm level. In particular, it is noted that
the wider socio-ecological systems underpinning the intrinsic and
extrinsic domains in the aquaculture sector are only treated superficially
in the existing literature (see e.g., Kumar et al., 2018). Motivated by the
socio-ecological system literature (Pigford et al., 2018; Vermunt et al.,
2020), we selected two variables that are relevant to aquatic-based innovations. We focus on climate change and institutions for several
reasons.
First, food-production systems are highly dependent on climate
conditions and institutional structures (Porter et al., 2014). Institutions
provide credits, inputs, and information to overcome risks (Kassie et al.,
2013), and climate change influences aquatic organisms’ physiological
and dietary requirements (Barange et al., 2018; Reid et al., 2019).
Second, they are two understudied forces that previously have been
linked to the adoption of agricultural technologies. Although less
explored in aquatic-based innovations, agricultural studies have This ex-ante analysis is conducted on aquaponics, an experimental
technology that is for the most part unknown to and has not yet been
diffused among farmers in the study area. We focus on two pilot systems
(coupled and decoupled) tested at the research facilities of ACUICA. According to ACUICA personnel, the general design consisted of: i) two fish
ponds that contained two different Amazonian fish species, respectively
Pirarucú (Arapaima gigas) and Cachama (Colossoma macropomum) where
the former was explained as having economic potential and the latter
represented the most farmed fish in the region; ii) sump and bioreactor
tanks storing nutrient-rich wastewater and concentrated sludge respectively; iii) vertical hydroponic units arranged in a pyramid shape on a
stainless-steel frame that supported twenty PVC pipes functioning as
growth beds (each containing 140 soilless plants); iv) a shared germination station for sprouted seedlings (e.g. pepper, celery, lettuce, tomato, green onion); and (v) a set of electrical pumps, aerators, and pH
and conductivity sensors to ensure water circulation, optimal oxygen,
and adequate nutrient content respectively. Furthermore, both systems
relied on a recycling loop to stock up nutrients from the bioreactor or
sump tank if the sensors detected low conductivity or pH levels. Likewise, when low nutrient levels were detected in the hydroponic outlet,
water from the pond was pumped into the sump tank. In turn, the
contamination loads that would otherwise be released into the natural
environment were reduced.
While sharing similarities, the two systems followed different operating principles corresponding to the metabolisms of the different fish
e pond in an uninterrupted loop (see Fig. 2).
By contrast, the aquaponic decoupled system worked on demand.
This meant that the aquaculture and the hydroponic unit were only
connected when nutrients were required (see Fig. 3). Hence, the hydroponic water outlet was connected by gravity to the sump tank (rather
than the lake) and was pumped back again towards the growth beds due
to the high organic load produced by Pirarucú (about sixteen times
higher than for Cachama).
According to our expert interviews, the systems just described provide a basis for diversifying farmers’ incomes and ensuring food security. Additionally, they have the potential to create niche markets for
organic fish and plant production, given consumer and farmers’ opposition to agrochemicals in water from agriculture and mining. However,
although aquaponics systems were described as “easy to use” and “not
complex at all”, the learning curve was observed to be steep:
Mounting the systems and acquiring the materials proved to be a
time-consuming and expensive exercise. Experts had to negotiate prices,
navigate the prototypes’ technical specifications, ensure permanent
surveillance, and install an alternative 24-hour power source to
compensate for an unreliable energy supply. It was further explained
that the delayed disbursement of funds to finance the prototypes created
administrative and operational hurdles. Hence, the sensors and bioreactor tanks in both systems were not fully functional. Furthermore,
while the aquaculture unit was observed to be compatible with local
practices, the hydroponic unit required specific expertise in both traditional and modern agriculture (the former implied learning about seed
germination in soil, the latter about transplanting seedlings to a soilless
environment). Thus, the experts felt that they “did not have the agronomic
expertise” to operate the hydroponic unit, despite being fully trained in
fish-farming techniques. Similarly, biophysical threats, specifically
intense periods of rain, exposure to the sun, insects, and fluctuating
temperatures, were also mentioned as ongoing issues. It was observed that all farmers ensured cover
management using natural vegetation and a cement structure to
prevent soil erosion in the water canals and pond dikes. Furthermore,
to avoid the risk of shortages of commercial fish-feed, LSCP famers
crafted farm-made fish feed from on-site byproducts, such as earthworms from vermiculture, tropical fruit shells, and a mixture of
probiotics based on sugarcane molasses in the feed pellets. Finally, in
addition to the diversification of pond species, LSCP farmers placed
protective nets above the ponds’ surfaces to reduce fingerling
predation.During intense periods of rain, some farmers were unable to drain their
fishponds and start the next farming cycle. Consequently, they received
less income, as the fish did not have enough time to reach an appropriate
weight for the high season: “For a long time, we have wanted to clean the
lake, but we can’t because of the rain” (F1). Moreover, farmers
unanimously agreed that their fish suffered a loss of appetite during
periods of rain. As one farmer explained, this was due to the low oxygen
levels, which in turn stressed the fish and reduced their appetite: “[The]
fingerlings are more susceptible to the change in [temperature], the big ones
have no problem… [My fish] no longer go out to eat because it’s cold in the
day and there is little oxygen” (F2). Similarly, another farmer explained
that the cold-water intake from the water run-off caused abrupt changes
to the fish ecosystem in the form of a reduction of algae. These combined
elements created a stressful environment for the fish, affecting their
immunological systems and leaving them more susceptible to diseases
like fungi. As one farmer explained: “Cachama is very susceptible to cold
temperatures, and I should not feed them in cold weather. But if it rains for
weeks, my animals lose weight and decompensate. My fish have never gotten
sick like this year, it hit me hard” (F4). Furthermore, during cold periods,
human diseases were reported to influence farmers’ working capacity,
that is, the number of workers employed. Also, road damage reduced the
mobility of paid labor to commute from remote areas that were often
linked by dirt roads that were difficult to drive on: “The staff does not go
out to work in the rainy season, and that affects the economy” (F4).
Third, although less complicated, farmers reported an increase in
temperatures and severe periods of drought. As a result, except for F2,
farmers experienced moderate water scarcities, reducing their production and moderating their business plans: “I might want to build another
pond, but the water capacity is not enough…We have water limitations” (F1).
Furthermore, one farmer expressed a reluctance to use technologies due
to the uncertainties of the dry season: “[My system functions] only with
gravity and naturally. I do not work with technologies because I’m afraid of
the dry season, rain, and disease. Here the energy supply is very inconsistent,
and if I use [technologies] in the middle of a shutdown [my production is
lost]” (F4).
Farmers were asked if they had adopted any strategies to mitigate the
impacts of droughts as well as increased intensity and frequency of
rainfall on their farms. We identified several adaptation strategies and
organized them into three groups:
• Fish management. All farmers reported to have diversified their ponds
with species that required less oxygen and relied more on natural
feed intakes, such as smaller fish or worms, to mitigate rainfall impacts. Also, the number of fish per square meter (stocking density)
was deliberately reduced to prevent shocks from low oxygen levels.
Moreover, antibiotics were used primarily by LSCP farmers to
manage fish disease outbreak: “We had to lower the levels of the ponds
and treat the fish. A [medicine] dose of salt and methylene blue or
formaldehyde is given to us by the extension officers” (F4). Conversely,
LSCP farmers opted for a wait-and-see approach: “I wait for it to pass
and let the animals heal on their own” (F2).
• Water management. Farmers with flooding issues changed the water
intake and outtake to avert pond overflow: “In some parts [of the
town] there are floods that destroy the ponds… if there is a lot of water, uaponics is a promising technology compared to conventional
methods of aquaculture. However, while it is true that, theoretically,
coupled and decoupled systems represent technological upgrading, evidence of the socioeconomic and environmental impacts varies globally
(Goddek et al., 2015; Yep and Zheng, 2019). Although aquaponics is
conceived as a sustainable technology by experts, one could argue that
technological change is not always associated with social improvements.
Spreading ‘ideal’ technological innovations can exacerbate unequal
power structures by favoring wealthier individuals and neglecting
poorer farmers with under-utilized resources (FAO, 2014b; Rogers,
1983). In the absence of a universal system, the advantages of aquaponics technology should not be generalized too quickly, given that
LSCP and PCP farmers face different realities. Thus, the pro-innovation
bias (Abara and Singh, 1993; Rogers, 1983) should be critically
evaluated.
Furthermore, while aquaponics decoupled designs appear to be the
most cautious alternative compared to coupled ones (Lennard and
Goddek, 2019), the observed system is paradoxically being trialed with
the riskiest fish species in the region, Pirarucú. Although Pirarucú is an
appealing candidate due to its fast rate of growth and low respiratory
requirements, there is little evidence about the species’ behavior in
captivity, and conventional production is still in the experimental phase
(Schaefer et al., 2012). According to the standards set by ACUICA,
Pirarucú production must last around fourteen months to meet market
demands. Hence, farmers require labor input to manage fish weight at
harvest, given average weights of 12 kg per fish, and business alliances
to collect and transport the live fish to processing plants and commercial
markets. Arguably, the promotion of Pirarucú in aquaponics farming
does not create the same trade and self-consumption opportunities as
Cachama among fish-farming production systems.
Observations and interviews reveal that the impacts of climaterelated events are only mentioned with negative connotations, which
may imply that fish-farmers’ do not experience any benefits from fluctuating temperature and rainfall patterns. Despite farmers’ apparently
high exposure to climate variability (Pabon ´ Caicedo, 2012), climate
impacts were seen as moderate or low. These findings may indicate that
fish-farming is more resilient than previous research suggests (FAO,
2014a; Porter et al., 2014). This could be because past research has
examined fish-farming interchangeably with marine aquaculture and
fishery activities. Additionally, this may imply that perceived weather
changes steer farmers’ behavior more than long-term climate data.
Like Kassie et al. (2013), one could argue that weather changes are
an explanatory variable driving behavioral change. However, our findings show that adaptation strategies were not materialized collectively.
Although most farmers reported experiencing water scarcities and falling oxygen levels in their fishponds, adaptation choices were only
implemented by LSCP farmers. This could partly be explained by their
access to natural resources, such as water reservoirs, which could play
an important role in their production. Previous research has shown that
access to natural resources may influence farmers’ behavior and perceptions (Sander et al., 2016). Since aquaponics production has been
considered to be of greater value in water- and land-scarce areas
(Goddek et al., 2019), farmers’ differing access to water reservoirs raises
questions regarding the competitive advantages of aquaponics among
production systems.
Institutions are considered to be one of the most pressing challenges
in aquaponics development and adoption across countries (Goddek
et al., 2019; Konig ¨ et al., 2018). Past research points out that technological innovation cannot function in a vacuum and that it relies greatly
on institutional support (Asayehegn et al., 2017; Gott et al., 2019). Key
informant interviews reveal an interplay between formal and informal
institutions in Caqueta. ´ Our findings indicate that the absence of unified
rules for fish-farming is not experienced equally across all farmers.
Moreover, the available data indicate that fish-farming production systems move across both the informal and formal spheres. In other words,
not all LSCP farmers had formal permits, and not all PCP farmers worked
in the informal economy. This implies that social capital, and thus
informal institutions (Rauf, 2009), play key roles in fostering structural
inequalities regardless of farmers’ formal or informal statuses. In this
regard, differing levels of social capital could be partly attributed to
LSCP farmers’ financial capacity to hire labor and keep production going
during off-farm business events. In contrast, the small size of PCP
farmers’ informal aquaculture networks could explain knowledge obstacles and their greater dependence on extension officers.
While we propose climate change and institutions as external forces
that are crucial for adoption, we wish to showcase their importance and
complementary to the variables employed by conventional approaches.
In line with Pigford et al. (2018) and Vermunt et al. (2020), we suggest
rethinking the way the adoption of aquaculture-based innovations is
conceptualized by developing multi-level theories that expand into the
broader socio-ecological dimension and underlying mechanisms. Our
case study reveals that a subset of variables calls for further attention
within climate change and institutions, such as social capital, formal
permits, and the perceived changes in temperature and rainfall. Our
findings are useful for understanding innovation practices and have the
potential to be applicable to other agricultural products. Our findings
also suggest that external forces appear to influence adoption behavior
in the aquaculture sector negatively. However, our ex-ante analysis does
not claim a cause-effect relationship towards adoption but is rather
delimited to forecast potential linkages among variables that ex-post
studies could find relevant to confirm or incorporate into their theoretical models.


