: Centrifuges, spectrophotometers, chromatography instruments,
instruments for DNA synthesis and DNA sequencing, analytical instruments for protein and amino acids,
electron microscopes, computers, library and large phytotron.
Future Development Plans: Establish several national or key laboratories; undertake more projects of
unquestioned national importance, place more emphasis on basic research and high technologies of
critical importance. : The International Center for Tropical Agriculture is
dedicated to the alleviation of hunger and poverty in developing countries in the tropics. Its seeks to
reach this goal by applying science to agriculture in ways that increase productivity while sustaining
natural resource base. CIAT’s four commodities are: beans, cassava and forages, worldwide and rice
grown in Latin America. Programmes focus on three ecosystems: sustainable production on underutilized grassy savannahs with highly acid soils; farming systems for erosion-prone hillside areas; and
stabilization of agriculture at the edge of rain forests Biodiversity inventory, prospecting, and information
management and dissemination programmes. In-service short-term training programmes, workshops
and internships in biodiversity inventory, prospecting, and information management and dissemination.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Biodiversity inventory: Collection and computerized information
on more than 2 million specimens; taxonomic revision and field guides. Biodiversity prospecting: Marketdriven research and development, collaboration with local universities and foreign research centres and
companies valued at more than US$2 million. Information management: Development of cutting-edge
technology management, analysis, presentation, distribution and integration of biodiversity information.
Biodiversity dissemination: Biological literacy through natural history and taxonomic information atschools and universities, analysis of commercial development of conserved wildlands, working with
legislators, serving on policymaking commissions and symposia, training of conservation staff; publishing
of field guides and other materials on biodiversity; organization of national and international meetings.
Main Research Facilities Available: Laboratory facilities and equipment for taxonomic identification,
classification and monitoring systems, biodiversity management system hardware and software,
specimen storage facilities, chemical extraction laboratories, 22 field biodiversity offices; biology
screening laboratories.
Future Development Plans: Completion of national and taxa biodiversity inventories; further
development of the biodiversity information management system, GIS modules, international networking
and multimedia software to support INBio’s multi-user information dissemination programme;
development of 12-hectare institutional campus. Agriculture; Biology; Biochemistry/Biophysics; Biotechnology; Veterinary
Sciences; Medical Sciences; Virology.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: Molecular characterization of plant viruses; diversity
of insect vectors and epidemiology of viral diseases; production of virus-free plants; genetic engineering
of virus-resistant plants; diagnosis and characterization of viral diseases; molecular and biochemical
characterization of plant genetic diversity; molecular and biochemical characterization and diagnosis of
human inherited diseases; organization of animal genomes; Sustainable desert farming systems; arid land
restoration; desert agroforestry systems; environmental and socioeconomic impacts of development;
renewable energy, including solar, wind and biogas; desert housing.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Development of desert development models that are
ecologically, economically and socially sustainable; creation of integrated desert farming systems;
explorations of renewable energy sources under desert conditions; socioeconomic analyses of new
desert settlements.
Main Research Facilities Available: Two experimental desert stations; laboratories for analyses of soil,
water, plants and tissue culture; solar- and wind-energy systems; library; computers; animal sheds;
agricultural equipment; greenhouses; machine shops. s: Exploration and evaluation of aquifers in desert
regions; well drilling and testing; monitoring of groundwater in desert and reclaimed areas; surveying and
evaluation of surface water in coastal regions; management of desert and newly reclaimed soils;
research on performance of species and cultivars of field crops, fodder, vegetables and fruits; protection
and improvement of range forage resources; studies into increasing productivity of animals raised under
desert condition; investigations into use of agricultural by-products and processing of less palatable
desert plants for animal feed; analyses of desert animal fibres in small-scale industries; socioeconomic
studies in marketing, agricultural cooperatives, settlements and labour; monitoring and control of
desertification; creation of urban greenbelts; training ofPlant pathology (nematology, bacteriology, virology,
mycology, pulse mycology, cereal mycology); Entomology (biological control - storage and field pests,
HPR; Weed science (non-parasitic, parasitic); Biotechnology.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Center was destroyed during 1993 civil war and subsequently
rebuilt. Center has identified resistant varieties of faba bean for root diseases and uncovered different
races of fungi bacteria and virus for biological control.
Main Research Facilities Available: Equipment: Microscopes, centrifuges, spectrophotometers, Elisa
testers, greenhouses, laboratories; four different types of computers; intermediate library; one field
station Future Development Plans: Basic research on virology, nemat solation and characterization of Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus
(CSSV); development of early bearing and high-yielding hybrid cocoa; analyses of cocoa fermentation
and flavour chemistry; cocoa by-product development and studies of other uses of cocoa.
Main Research Facilities Available: HPLC; GLC; spectrophotometer; centrifuges; autoclave;
incubators; microwave oven; computers; hybridization chamber; field stations; library.  Improvement of following crops and their production
technologies: cereals (maize, rice); legumes (cowpea, soybean, groundnut, bambara nut); horticultural
crops, fruits (pineapple, avocado, citrus), vegetables (pepper, onion, tomato); roots and tubers (cassava,
yam, cocoyam, sweet potato); plantain and banana; integrated management of pests and diseases,
including biological controls; prevention of postharvest losses; resource and crop management;
socioeconomic studies on production technologies and impact of research. Institute offers two-week
training courses in crop, soil and water management to extension- and other workers.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Institute has developed and released improved varieties of
following crops and their production technologies: maize (8), cowpea (6), soybean (2), cassava (3);
improved crop management practices on plantain, rice, horticultural, citrus, mangoes. 
