The CIAT Analytical Services Laboratory, created in 1973, offers its users the performance of tests on soils, plant tissue, agricultural inputs, water for irrigation, for which it applies 88 types of parameters. Additionally, specialized analyzes are offered for the determination of heavy metals by the technique of Optical Emission Spectroscopy with Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP – OES), such as cadmium (Cd) in cocoa, soils, plants, water and supplies. The laboratory works under the NTC/IEC 17025 Standard, actively participates in the WEPAL programs (Wageningen Evaluating Programs for Analytical Laboratories, for its acronym in English) in the Netherlands.
While providing its services to the research areas CIAT focuses on, it also attends to requests from external clients such as the BIOTEC Corporation, the Clayuca Corporation, the Latin American Fund for Irrigated Rice (FLAR), the Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat (CIMMYT), the Foundation for Agricultural Research and Development (FIDAR), HarvestPlus, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Ingredion, Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia, Ingenio la Cabaña, Universidad del Valle, Universidad ICESI, University of Cauca, Corpoica, Ingenio Providencia, University of Antioquia, CIPAV Foundation, Sucroal S.A., University of Quindío,
Asocaña and the National University of Colombia – Palmira Section, among others. Characterization: These analyzes are useful for quickly diagnosing the state of the soil. Including the most important aspects at the level of major nutrients.
pH and aluminium: Made using the potentiometry technique.
Organic matter, phosphorus and sulfur: Elaborated with the Visible Ultraviolet technique.
Potassium, calcium, magnesium and sodium: through the Atomic Absorption technique.
Analysis of minor elements: Useful to know which of these elements, taken by plants in small quantities, are present in the soil and thus determine the deficiencies that affect the growth and development of plants. These elements are iron, copper, zinc, manganese-assessed by Atomic Absorption-and boron by Ultraviolet Visible.
Complete chemical analysis: Includes characterization, analysis of minor elements and the evaluation of the cation exchange capacity that is carried out with the potentiometry technique, thus offering a complete diagnosis of soil fertility. This analysis is especially useful for identifying the most suitable crop for the type of soil studied, as well as for defining the type and amount of fertilizer to counteract the deficiencies it presents.
Soil salinity: Evaluation of soluble cations, through saturation paste, and of calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium – through Atomic Absorption-; ammonium with the Visible Ultraviolet technique, and the pH and electrical conductivity by potentiometry. This analysis allows knowing the levels of cations and anions, thus facilitating the identification of excesses or deficiencies in soils Soluble anions such as nitrates, carbonates and bicarbonates are evaluated by potentiometry, while sulfates by the Visible Ultraviolet technique.
Nitrogen characterization: Establishes the levels of organic and mineral nitrogen (ammonium, nitrate and nitrite) applying the Visible Ultraviolet technique in the soil.
Total Nitrogen and Phosphorus: Allows knowing the total content of these elements, with special emphasis on the amount of phosphorus available to be taken by the plant.
Individual parameter: They are part of any of the soil analyzes and the rest of the laboratory's service offering. Users can request individual analysis of a particular parameter.
The purpose of CIAT's Soil Physics Laboratory is to identify soil degradation processes or mechanisms and thus provide its users with the information to identify the interaction with the factors related to the decrease in crop yields, and to develop soil restoration measures. the physical properties of the soil.
In addition to internal research projects, the laboratory provides services to educational institutions such as the National University, Valle University, Córdoba University, Pereira Technological University and Francisco de Paula Santander University and private and public institutions such as Asocaña, Cooperation Agency International of Japan (JICA), Fedearroz among others, strengthening academic training, supporting research projects and meeting the needs of the agricultural community and civil works. The Soil Physics Laboratory has personnel with the required training to provide training in taking soil samples, methodologies and interpretation of results.
The CIAT Greenhouse Gas Analysis Laboratory,