Number of Research Scientists: 495; Number of Staff: 2014.
Scientific Fields of Interest: Agriculture; biology; chemistry; engineering/technology; veterinary
sciences; mathematics.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: (i) The faculty of veterinary science is composed of
the departments of: veterinary anatomy, veterinary physiology and pharmacology, veterinary
microbiology, veterinary parasitology, veterinary clinical medicine and surgery, veterinary pathology, and
animal reproduction; (ii) The faculty of agricultural economics and rural sociology is composed of the
departments of: data processing unit, agricultural economics, rural sociology, agricultural marketing,
cooperation and credit, and farm management; (iii) The faculty of sciences is composed of the
departments of: human environmental cell, botany, zoology and fisheries, special cell "fisheries research.
farm", chemistry, physics, mathematics and statistics, social sciences and humanities, Islamic studies,
agricultural meteorology; (iv) The directorate of advanced studies and research; (v) Miscellaneous:
includes the general administration, library, department of public relations and publications, sports and
students activities, medical and health services, hostel warden, senior tutor, placement bureau, students
record branch, engineering construction, motor pool, estate management, stores department, and the
directorate of students affairs. The animal reproduction section is located at the College of Veterinary
Sciences in Lahore.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Produced 165 PhDs, 175 MPhils, 9312 MScs and 134 BScs;
developed wheat variety LU-26, identified salt-tolerant varieties/lines of wheat; developed saline
agriculture technology, new reclamation technique for salt-affected areas; developed embryo transfer
technology both in indigenous cows and buffaloes; synthesized crossbreed of cows for high milk
production and resistance to disease; developed Lyallpur Silver Black poultry for rural areas; developed
high lysine single cell proteins.
Main Research Facilities Available: Most laboratories are well-equipped with computers (PCs) and
other equipment, including spectrophotometers, flame photometers, pH meters, atomic absorption
spectrophotometers, HPLC, amino acid analyser, GC. Library has collection of recent books and
periodicals in various fields of research. Two experimental stations for field work.
Future Development Plans: Centre for Agricultural Biochemistry and Biotechnology (CABB); Centre for
Advanced Study in Applied Genetics and Saline Agriculture Animal Health Biotechnology Research
Centre; Rural Women Development Centre. 