The Rice Observatory is an initiative led by the Laboratory of Applied Economics of the Alliance of Bioversity International and the international Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) , With support from the Latin American Fund for Irrigated Rice (FLAR), To establish an information system that provides indicators related to the productive context of rice in Latin America. It includes data related to the context of rice in each country, information on the production system, information on trade and competitiveness, consumption data rice, policies and incentives in the industry, inventory of technologies related to rice, recent news on rice, inventory of quality requirements of rice cultivation and indicators related to the agronomic managemente of rice in the region. The Rice Observatory is a web platform, managed by the Alliance Bio and FLAR, presenting the data provided in the Monitoring and Follow-up Survey of the Rice Sector in Latin America - EMSAL, in a dynamic and interactive manner for the benefit of the key players in the rice sector.

Applied Economics Lab of the Policy Analysis Research Area (DAPA) , specializes in various econometric and statistical methods, as well as impact research methodologies to implement a variety of rigorous quantitative and qualitative data analyses. The Applied Economics Lab stresses the importance of keeping up to date with new information, tools, and analytical methods that facilitate robust documentation of the research results and impacts of the Bioversity International-CIAT Alliance and its partners.

FLAR generates and disseminates knowledge, technologies and innovations through partnerships that contribute to rice competitiveness and sustainability. FLAR brings together various rice-related organizations from 17 countries in the region and the United States. Alliance of Bioversity International and CIAT, as a strategic partner.
Analyses of Materials
Structural Characterization of Materials by Electron Microscopy
Testing, Research and Selection of Materials for the industrial sector
Nanoscale Investigations of Particulate Materials
Materiallography: Preparation and Study of Materials by Optical, SEM and TEM Microscopies
Surface Metrology
Service of Surface Characterization
Service of Focused Ion Beams (FIB)
Simulation, Characterization and Evolution of Materials
Laboratory of Micro and Nanocharacterization of Materials
Laboratory and Service of Additive Fabrication (3D Printing): Materials, prototyping and Production
Laboratory of Systems and Materials for Solar Energy 
Data Management is essential to the overall clinical research function. Assuring the overall accuracy and integrity of the clinical trial data is the core business of the data management function. NoyMed has both Senior and Mid-level data managers, Senior and Mid-level database designers, and medical coders to service our clients' needs.

NoyMed's Data Management services cover:

-Full spectrum of data management services for paper- based and electronic data capture (EDC) based trials

-Data Management Plan (DMP) creation

-Data entry and validation

-Data cleaning

-External data loading and reconciliation (ECG; PK/PD etc.) Serious adverse event (SAE) reconciliation

-Database lock

-Database review delivered in SAS, XML, or other formats

-Quality Control (QC) sampling for paper-based studies

-Case Report Form (CRF), electronic and/or paper

-Database (DB) clinical trial data specifications, including eCRF design, user requirements, edit rules/checks, query logic, and data validations

-Data Transfer Agreement(s) (DTAs) between external data vendors and/or core labs

-UAT of eCRF build and validation documents, included but not limited to: edit check document, issue logs, UAT summary report

-Maintenance/tracking of EDC user management and other Clinical databases across allocated Clinical trials, including but not limited to, compiling master user lists and activating/deactivating user accounts

-Data reconciliation and/or coding

-Archiving of study databases and related documents

-Close-out audit for closing of study trial in EDC or other clinical data management DBs

-CRF annotation

-Discrepancy management, writing queries and integrating the resolutions, efficiently complying with the guidelines and SOPs
lemental analysis is the qualitative and quantitative analysis of the elements in sample. Elemental analysis has a wide range of applications in the fields of chemistry, materials science, environmental testing and food testing. As a professional reliability third-party testing organization, T,C&A Lab can perform a full range of elemental analysis services according to ISO, ASTM and other standards as well as industry requirements. Welcome to contact our experts for consultation.

Element analysis services include, but are not limited to
Environmental monitoring: Mixed fertilizers, wastes, silt, slime, sediments, fertilizers, solid-liquid waste, etc.

Chemical and pharmaceutical products: Fine chemical products, pharmaceutical products, explosives, catalysts, organometallic compounds, fiber materials and textiles, etc.

Petrochemical and energy: Coal, coke, crude oil, petroleum, lubricating oil, oil additives, etc.

Geology: Marine, river sediments, soil, rocks and minerals.

Energy saving and emission reduction: Composition analysis of fuel, coal, oil, etc.

Agricultural products: Wood, food, dairy products.

Our elemental analysis capabilities include but are not limited to
Trace elements analysis: Lead, Arsenic, Vanadium, etc.

Organic elements: Potassium, Sodium, Calcium, Magnesium, Copper, Zinc, Iron, Manganese, etc.

Inorganic elements: Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Oxygen, Sulfur, Halogen.

Our analysis techniques include, but are not limited to
X-Ray fluorescence spectroscopy (XRF)

X-ray energy spectrum (EDS)

Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES)

Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS)

Organic element analyzer The full name of ICP-AES is Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry, also known as Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP-OES). It is mainly used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of inorganic elements, and can analyze more than 70 elements in the periodic table. The powerful quantitative function of ICP-AES is widely used in the analysis of sample elements. The fields involved include catalysis, energy, chemical industry, biology, geology, environmental protection, medicine, food, metallurgy, agriculture, etc. As a professional reliability third-party testing organization, T,C&A Lab's Testing Technique can perform ingredients analysis for raw materials and products according to ISO, ASTM and other standards as well as industry requirements. Welcome to contact our experts for consultation.

Elements that can be determined by ICP-AES
Elements that can be determined by ICP-AES

Qualitative and quantitative analysis of ICP-AES
Qualitative analysis

Qualitative analysis is performed by the position (wavelength) of the characteristic spectral lines. Since the characteristic emission lines of each element are different, the existence of the element in the sample can be determined by the existence of several characteristic lines.

Quantitative analysis

Quantification is carried out by the intensity of the characteristic spectral lines, and the quantitative analysis generally adopts the standard curve method.
Analytical Services Laboratory
The Analytical Services Lab at Alliance Bioversity International - CIAT, offers a diverse range of analytical techniques such as soils testing, plant tissue analysis, agricultural supplies, bromatological analysis, irrigation water analysis as well as specialized tests in which 100 parameters are used. The lab operates according to the NTC/IEC 17025 normative and actively participates on the WEPAL programs (Wageningen Evaluating Programmes for Analytical Laboratories) in Holland.

Find out more about our services here (in Spanish).

Greenhouse Gas Laboratory
The Greenhouse Gas Lab provides expert analysis on soils gas emissions from different agricultural practices. It also offers methodological implementation advice depending on the systems aim to be evaluated as well as a wide range of chemical analysis. It operates under International Quality Standards such as NTC ISO/IEC 17025:2005 (Quality Management System).


Virology Lab
Plant pests and pathogens can wipe out farmers’ hard work and cause significant losses to yields and incomes, posing a major threat to food and nutrition security of millions at a time. The lab integrate different approaches and digital open tools to understand, detect and keep track of the occurrence of transboundary pests and pathogens worldwide.

The project, led by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), will implement a new technological solution called “e-kakashi,” a service that combines internet of things (IoT), big data, artificial intelligence (AI) and cyber physical systems (CPS) to transform agriculture into a real-time, data-driven science. In brief, e-kakashi is an agriculture AI brain developed by SoftBank Corp. (SoftBank) that collects larger amounts of environmental data in the field and weather information, processes and analyzes this data with agronomical knowledge then combine with farming experiences, evidence and practices to help farmers navigate the cultivation process and create an optimal rice-producing environment.

Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) has the potential to become a worldwide powerhouse in the production of food and other agricultural products if its available resources are leveraged wisely. To fully realize this potential, actions must be taken in raising productivity in an environmentally conscious manner. Increasing yields and doing so in the existing production area through sustainable agricultural practices will have to be accompanied by new technologies and innovations which allow producers and other actors to maximize the efficient use of resources along the value chain.

e-kakashi has been already tested in Colombia by CIAT in pilot rice paddies located inside the CIAT facility in Cali. This pilot has been conducted within the framework of a Japanese government program called SATREPS, the Science and Technology Research Partnership for Sustainable Development. IDB Lab’s project, will be the first trial of e-kakashi aiming for a commercial level implementation and expansion outside Japan. Initially, the project will help small-scale rice farmers (who have, on average, 5.9 hectares each) in the Cauca and Valle del Cauca Departments. Later, it will seek to expand its coverage to the Arauca and Casanare Departments.

Additionally, e-kakashi contributes to solving environmental problems such as unstable water supplies and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Flooded rice paddies emit as much as 500 million tons of methane worldwide, which is around 20 percent of total human-made emissions of this gas. The warm, waterlogged soil of rice paddies provides ideal conditions for producing methane. SoftBank has been developing the e-kakashi solution to track and calculate optimal water levels at each phase of plant growth not only to enhance agriculture productivity but also to reduce methane emissions.

The project will have two phases.  The first phase is designed to prove the effectiveness of the solution in actual rice fields in Colombia in collaboration with CIAT, SoftBank, local rice farmers, and local rice milling companies; and the second, will scale up the solution among smallholder farmers (of rice and other agricultural products) in the other locations in Colombia and beyond.IDB Lab is the innovation laboratory of the Inter-American Development Bank Group, the leading source of development finance and expertise for improving lives in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Our purpose is to drive innovation for inclusion in the region, co-creating life-changing solutions for vulnerable populations affected by economic, social, and environmental conditions.The International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) is a non-profit organization that conducts socially and environmentally progressive research aimed at reducing hunger and poverty and preserving natural resources in developing countries. To this effect, the center cooperates with many national and international institutions in developing and industrialized countries in the form of networks and consortia. CIAT conducts research for development on five complementary areas :
agrobiodiversity and genetics
ecology and management of pests and diseases
soil ecology and improvement
analysis of spatial information
socioeconomic analysis
CIAT also operates a plant gene bank—the Genetic Resources Unit (GRU) focused on global agriculture, food security, and R&D efforts. The GRU provides advice, expertise and training in genetic conservation as a support to national research programs in the region.

The CIAT library provides information for research and development in tropical agriculture through databases and e-journals with free access to full texts of close to 300 journals. The Analytical Services Laboratory (ASL) is a research support section based at CIAT, conducting analysis for agricultural purposes and specializing in the analyses of soils and plant tissues in Colombia and Latin America.


The CIAT website and on-line publications are available in English and Spanish. More details about CIAT's offices worldwide, main products and current projects are available on the site.

SoftBank Corp. (“SoftBank”) today announced that from November 2019 “e-kakashi”—an AI-powered “brain” for agriculture—will be deployed in Colombia for the Smart Rice Farming Project (“the Project”). The Project, which is supported by IDB Lab*1, the Inter-American Development Bank’s innovation lab, aims to improve the productivity and sustainability of rice farming in Colombia.

Thanks to their large landmasses, Colombia and other countries in the Latin America and Caribbean region (LAC region) have the potential to become agricultural production powerhouses. However, since agriculture greatly impacts the environment with its high levels of water consumption, new solutions using Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) are being sought to balance productivity and sustainability through the efficient use of resources. Led by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), along with seedling distribution, the Project’s purpose is to spread the adoption of low-input rice cultivation in the LAC region by compiling know-how into digital manuals.

SoftBank’s e-kakashi has already been tested*2 in Colombia by CIAT at its pilot rice paddies and the Project will utilize insights from these tests to deploy e-kakashi as an ICT-based solution. After trials that use e-kakashi with CIAT, local rice milling companies, rice farmers and others are finished, the Project aims to spread commercial-level implementation in Colombia and to other LAC region countries.

Through the use of e-kakashi, SoftBank aims to contribute to the realization of sustainable agriculture around the world.Development of sustainable agricultural
technologies; recovery of eroded soil and subsoil through reforestation with legumes trees; maximization
of nitrogen fixation in soybeans, beans and forage legumes through better elucidation of plant bacteria
relationships; identification of diazotrophic bacteria that colonize forage grasses, rice, maize, sorghum
and sugar cane and clarify mechanisms for interaction with the plant. Quantification of the contribution of
nitrogen fixation to these crops; technologies for inoculation of legumes and gramineous plants with
selected mixtures of diazotrophs and interaction with VA mycorrhizae; identification of VA mycorrhizae
and their role in establishing legume and non-legume crops in the field. Electron microscope (scanning and optical), microthons,
ultracentrifuge, mass spectrometer, lyophilizers, computers, FIA. Field station with 200 hectares; library
containing 2,500 books, 281 journals and database listing 21,000 articles. Five greenhouses, including
one with facilities to test genetically modified microorganisms.
Future Development Plans: Application of gene probes in ecological studies involving diazotrophs;
biological control of plant pests and diseases; plant breeding for organic agriculture.Collection, characterization, conservation and
utilization of genetic resources for all germplasm material introduced in the country; animal embryology;
plant genetic engineering, biological pest control. Training is provided through courses and postgraduate
field work.
Major Scientific Results or Products: National network for genetic resources conservation consisting
of 84 gene banks. Competence in plant molecular biology, embryology and field biological control.
Main Research Facilities Available: 20 fully equipped laboratories, 31 greenhouses, up-to-date library.
Future Development Plans: Continue research in the genetic resources and biotechnology and dedicated to research and development in
food technology. Its main objectives are to implement techniques for the preparation, processing,
packaging, storage, distribution and utilization of food related to juices, pulps and concentrates and the
canning of fruits and vegetables; industrial fermentations; storage of grains; post-harvest of fruits and
vegetables; baking, beverages; edible oils; dehydrated foods; fish and marine resources; meats; dairy
products; microbiology; quality control; and pesticides residues. : Laboratories on food science; chemistry, biochemistry,
microbiology and pesticide residues that enable staff to conduct sensitive analysis and tests (including
plasma spectrometer, atomic absorption spectrophotometer, texture analyser, gas chromatograph,
amino acid analyser, multichannel fluoroptic thermometer, stereomicroscope “zoom”, impedance
system, electronic centrifuges, and hunterlab colorimeter; computers; microcomputers AST 3/25s. Pilot
plants for milk and dairy products, meats, flours, fermentation and distillery, dehydrated food, fruit juices
and soft drinks, horticulture products, canning, aseptic line, fish and marine resources, fats and edible
oils. The best library on food in South America with a Sectorial Nucleus for Information on Food (NSI-AL),
linked to a national information chain devoted to other areas of knowledge.Crop production and breeding (more than 130
different species), emphasising cotton, sugar cane, coffee, cereals (corn, rice and wheat), citrus, flowers
and ornamentals, tropical and temperate fruits, legume and oil crops (beans, soybeans, peanuts and
sunflowers), roots and tubers, tropical plants (rubber and palm) and horticultural plants. Soil, climate and
water studies focusing on soil fertility and plant nutrition, soil conservation, soil survey, soil microbiology,
agrometeorology and irrigation. Biological sciences (plants only): botany, cytology, entomology,
physiology, phytopathology, and virology; mechanization and energy Food product development; meat science and
technology; dairy science and technology; starch and baking science and technology; quality control;
food fermentation; juices and beverages; food chemistry and microbiology; natural dyes and
antioxidants; vegetable science and technology; agrobusiness; biotechnology.: Regulation of neurotransmitter and glutamate
receptors; function and processing of the Alzheimer’s amyloid precursor protein; monoclonal antibodies;
biogenesis of peroxisomes; protein kinase C and ecotoxicology; fish oils and cardiovascular disease;
skeletal, muscle differentiation; extracellular matrix; doctorate programme in cell and molecular biology.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Subcellular localization of acetylcholinesterase; regulation of
PKC by hypolipidemic drug; settlement inducers of molluscs; regulation of excitatory amino acid
receptors; treatment of cardiovascular diseases with fish oils; diagnostic methods for Alzheimer’s
disease; synthesis and processing of proteoglycons.
Main Research Facilities Available: Department has several well-equipped biochemical laboratories
with mass spectrometers, ultracentrifuges, HPLC, computer networks and electron microscopes,
including transmission and scanning electron microscopes.The Department focuses on teaching and research
and offers extension courses in ecology in the following areas: botany and zoology in terrestrial and
aquatic living systems. The Department oversees doctorate programme in the biological sciences with
concentration in ecology. Researchers concentrate on the structure and dynamics The Biotechnology Research Centre was founded
by the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in 1986 based upon the realization that biotechnology
and its applications may be key factors in the future development of agriculture. The Centre consists of
three laboratories and one workshop, the work of which is closely related. The most research tropics are
listed as follows: Genetic engineering (insect resistance, plant virus resistance, resistance to disease
caused by bacterium, resistance to disease caused by fungus, nutrition improvement of crop);
Mechanism of expression and gene structure (gene cloning, promoter analysis); Molecular marker: High-speed refrigerated centrifuge; ultra-speed refrigerated
centrifuge; spectrophotometer; GeneAMP PCR system; DNA sequencing system; computers; biolistic
delivery system; vacuum evaporator; growth chamber; icemaker; refrigerators; oligonucleotide
synthesizer; thermostatic circulators; HPLC systems; greenhouse; library. The institute includes several laboratories and
departments (medicinal plant cultivation, medicinal plant resources, medicinal fungus, herbarium,
phytochemistry, analytical chemistry, organic chemistry, immunology I and II) as well as a botanical
garden and a pilot plant. The Institute’s research encompasses three
interrelated disciplines — plant physiology, microbiology and molecular genetics. Specifically, Institute
focuses its research on the molecular, cellular, organism and community levels and concentrates on
basic life activities of plants and microbes, including growth, metabolism, energy transduction, heredity
and mutation. The Institute also studies the impacts of environmental factors. Our ultimate goal is to seek
ways to control life processes, modify microbe and plant characters and behaviour, and provide the
theoretical basis and techniques for advances in biological engineering.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Discovery of high-energy intermediate state in
photophosphorylation, application of growth regulatory substances, protoplast culture of crops, fine
structure mapping and regulation study of nitrogen fixation genes, cloning and expression of genetic
determinants for K88 and K99 and their use in the prevention of acute diarrhoea in piglets, regulatory
effects of nitrogenous metabolites on the biosynthesis of rifamycin and validamycin, and explorations of
concentrated protein derived from soybean and micropropagation of plants by tissue culture. 