Cassava
Up to 1998 cassava research in LAC was led by CIAT in collaboration with national programs
and research institutions, and was financed mainly with public funds. The Latin American
and Caribbean Consortium to Support Cassava Research and Development (CLAYUCA) was
established in 1999 as a complementary model based on strategic alliances between public
and private sector institutions to facilitate the exchange of experiences and information, the
transfer of improved technologies and the support to planning and financing cassava research
and development activities. In the CAC region, only Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Haiti, and Cuba
are CLAYUCA members.  
CIAT plays a central role in the flow of improved cassava germplasm in the region. Cassava
breeding capacity in the region is weak; most countries merely select clones sent by the CIAT
program. CIAT has played a key role in establishing one of the region’s only in‐vitro labs in
Nicaragua and in training technicians to run the lab. This lab now has the capacity for
germplasm conservation and as a spillover this lab serves as a distribution facility to
distribute disease free clones to neighboring countries. CLAYUCA is a key collaborative
arrangement (Chapter 6). However, as noted in Chapter 4 the Panel sees the need for CIAT to
increase cassava research activity in Latin America.
Rural agroenterprise development
CIAT is also involved in Agroenterprise development in CAC. Activity is conducted from
CIAT headquarters as part of the current market value chain product. The objectives of the
program are to improve market access of smallholders in traditional staple crops, new high
value crop markets, and agricultural products for industrial purposes. This is primarily a
training activity aimed at farmer organizations, NGOs, and governmental organizations.
CIAT’s efforts in this area are appreciated by their direct clients, but the Panel is concerned
with the lack of research output, the balance between research and developmental activities,
and the difficulty of scaling up to achieve broad impact. These are all concerns mentioned in
the CCER of the Rural Innovation Institute. The Panel believes that this activity could be a
supporting capacity for the regional programs.
Soil and water management (MIS)
Central America has one of the most severe soil degradation problems of any area of the
world and CIAT has had significant natural resource management (NRM) activity in the
region in the past. At present however, CIAT has no active research in the region although it
remains involved in providing capacity building support to the soil and water management,
regional network. CIAT terminated the only TSBF soil scientist stationed in the region in 2006.
This scientist is presently on a short term consultant contract until the end of 2007. The Panel
believes that to be more effective CIAT should better link soils NRM research with
germplasm improvement and crop management according to regional demands. CIAT
provides guidance and intellectual support to the MIS network. The Panel suggests that CIAT
continue to support this well established soil and water management network.
60
Agrosalud
Agrosalud is a special project, begun in 2004, that focuses on the biofortification of staple
crops in LAC. Agrosalud is funded by CIDA and involves the collaboration of CIMMYT, CIP,
EMBRAPA, CLAYUCA & CIAT, NARS in Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala,
and 21 other organizations in the region. It is associated with, and similar in intent to, the
HarvestPlus CP. It is a well funded program that has assembled a multidisciplinary research
team led by the former director of INTA (Nicaragua) and is headquartered at CIAT’s regional
office in Managua. EPMR Panel members observed excellent interaction among CIAT staff
and their Agrosalud collaborators.  
The Agrosalud program aligns well with a CIAT strategy that aimed at strengthening its
genetic improvement programs in the region. CIAT’s genetic improvement programs in rice,
beans and cassava are vital components of Agrosalud. This program is presently shouldering
much of the burden of supporting CIAT’s breeding efforts in the region.
Panel assessment of the LAC regional program
The overall impression is that CIAT has considerable potential to build a strong presence in
LAC and to make a vital difference in food security in the region. To realize this potential will
require strategic planning and the commitment by CIAT Headquarters to follow through
with donors, government decision makers and regional partners. The congruence between
regional needs and CIAT’s mandate and strengths are striking. It is a small region with huge
needs for assistance for agricultural research and technology. There is a palpable weakening
of NARS in the region. That CIAT has allowed its own research program to diminish sends
the wrong message about the centrality of agricultural research in combating poverty and
food security in the region.
The Panel feels that maintaining a credible presence would not require large amounts of core
funding. CIAT germplasm has had a large and well‐documented impact in the region, while
the evidence of impact of other CIAT activities is scant. A minimum CIAT presence in Central
America and the Caribbean might consist of a “genetic improvement specialist” and the
present regional coordinator serving as agronomic support. The genetic improvement
specialist should be capable of linking local bean, cassava, forage and rice breeders to CIAT
programs, effectively fulfilling many of the functions of the defunct commodity networks.
Agrosalud complements this activity. A further need is for economic research support which
could be implemented from Headquarters.  
A strategic presence in Latin America and the Caribbean is important to CIAT to fulfill its
mission. The Panel believes that CIAT needs to take steps to reestablish its credibility in the
LAC region. It is important that CIAT communicates to regional stakeholders that it is a long‐
term reliable partner.  
[#8] The Panel recommends that CIAT commission a task force of key stakeholders to assis