Big data and mobile technology are widely claimed to be global disruptive forces in agriculture that benefit small-scale farmers. Yet the access of small-scale farmers to this technology is poorly understood. We show that only 24–37% of farms of <1 ha
in size are served by third generation (3G) or 4G services, compared to 74–80% of farms of >200 ha in size. Furthermore,
croplands with severe yield gaps, climate-stressed locations and food-insecure populations have poor service coverage. Across
many countries in Africa, less than ~40% of farming households have Internet access, and the cost of data remains prohibitive.
We recommend a digital inclusion agenda whereby governments, the development community and the private sector focus
their efforts to improve access so that data-driven agriculture is available to all farmers globally. Data-driven interventions are widely suggested to be a disruptive force in global food systems1–5
. The aim is to use big data
and mobile technology to address issues as diverse as low
crop yields6
, poor human nutrition7
, disease8
 and climate adaptation1
. However, mobile network coverage, handset ownership and
affordable mobile service subscriptions are necessary prerequisites
to achieve these solutions. Although the footprints of mobile networks and mobile phone ownership have increased in recent years,
and the costs of mobile data have declined9
, substantial gaps in access
remain. Nearly half of the world’s population is estimated to still be
without Internet access10. There is concern that this digital divide
could stall the realization of human rights11 and the Sustainable
Development Goals of the United Nations (UN), particularly those
relating to education, equity, health and well-being12.
We define data-driven farming as the use of data to augment
decision-making in farming systems and thus improve food system
outcomes such as crop yields, profits, environmental sustainability
and food security. The potential for data-driven farming to improve
food systems has recently expanded due to advances in three key
areas: data generation (for example, in mobile devices, field sensors,
satellites and ‘farmers as sensors’), data processing and predictive
analytics (for example, by using big data stacks, machine learning and deep learning), and human–computer interactions (that
is, human-centric approaches to create experiences that improve
the ease and use of insights through voice, text and images).
Data-driven farming is promoted in areas such as climate services13,
digital extension14, precision agriculture3
, market information systems15 and agricultural insurance2
. There are many specific examples, including the IBM Watson Decision Platform for Agriculture,
which uses performance geocomputation and a range of input
data, such as high-resolution weather forecasts, for localized prescription farming and crop management16. Another example is the
Nuru application of the UN Food and Agricultural Organization,
which uses computer vision for in-field pest and disease diagnostics
of major food security threats such as the damage caused by the
fall armyworm17.
Recent synthesis has estimated that mobile-phone-based digital extension and price information systems in sub-Saharan Africa
and India, some of which are data-driven, can modestly improve
crop yields, increase adoption of recommended inputs, and raise
farmer profits14. Basic benefits of the use of mobile technologies
have also been reported in healthcare; for example, where improvements in patient outcomes and reduced healthcare costs have been
documented18. However, it is poorly understood how the differential
access to mobile technologies in farming communities might limit
the vision for achieving data-driven farming, health and nutrition
globally19. In particular, donors, governments and research organizations lack sufficient understanding of the spatial distribution of data
services across farms, and how existing services intersect with farms
that have the greatest need for support and areas which contain the
most food-insecure populations20. This lack of understanding of the
baseline for data-driven farming limits our ability to assess the feasibility, scalability and probable impact of investment in digital technology projects and interventions in food systems across the world.
Here, we report a global baseline assessment of the state of mobile
coverage and access to data services in farming. We use the coverage of mobile services as a measure of availability, which is the basic
infrastructural backbone needed for scaling data-driven solutions.
We examine how this availability intersects with opportunities for
raising productivity and delivering financial, climate and healthcare
services. We then assess subnational patterns in mobile phone and
Internet access across non-farming and farming populations, for a
subset of countries for which subnational data are available. In these
countries are found 75%, 88% and 46% of all farming households
in Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Asia, respectively.
We consider our results within the context of the current needs for
closing the digital divide in agriculture on a global scale. and 42% for 4G services (Fig. 1a). This pattern of unequal coverage
is even more marked across farm size classes. Small farms have disproportionately slower services available to them than large farms
(Fig. 1b). Globally, only 37% and 24% of farms of <1ha receive 3G
and 4G services, respectively, whereas 80% and 74% of farms of
>200ha receive 3G and 4G services, respectively.
Spatial heterogeneity in coverage is important. High-speed (that
is, 3G and 4G) services are predominant in North America and
Europe, whereas large coverage gaps exist in sub-Saharan Africa.
Across the African continent, network coverage on cropland is only
33% for 3G and 9% for 4G services, and in Asia, it is 46% for 3G and
29% for 4G services. However, coverage in Asia varies by country.
For example, the majority of India and Thailand are covered by 3G
and 4G services, whereas large gaps exist in China, Vietnam and
Mongolia (Fig. 1a).
In terms of high-speed network coverage of areas with the greatest need for support, we find that, globally, coverage in areas affected
by nitrogen-deficient soils and severe yield gaps is around 60% for
3G and 22% for 4G services. Coverage in areas that are most dependent on rainfall for crop production is 71% for 3G and 54% for 4G
services. Coverage in arid croplands (environments that receive
<250mm annual rainfall) is 37% for 3G and 17% for 4G services
(Table 1). Coverage gaps pose important obstacles for developing
data-hungry nutrient advisories, climate services and financial services that need mobile Internet access.
We also assessed cross-cutting themes of food insecurity and the
incidence of communicable diseases, which together represent compounding factors that increase population vulnerability alongside
low crop productivity and climate stressors. These themes underpin
efforts to develop mobile health services for rural populations. We
find that, of individuals affected by food insecurity globally (as measured by the prevalence of childhood stunting21), 61% are served
by 3G and 45% are served by 4G. In Africa, the numbers are particularly low (52% and 22% for 3G and 4G, respectively). Globally,  of individuals with malaria (those infected with Plasmodium falciparum), only 37% have access to 3G services and 17% to 4G services. This lack of coverage for at-risk populations poses serious
concerns not only for the development of mobile services for populations affected by existing nutritional burdens and diseases, but
also for the response of wider populations to food security threats
and health impacts of emerging diseases, including COVID-19.
Access gaps
Our analysis highlights differences in household ownership of
mobile handsets. Although ownership of mobile phones by farming households in many locations throughout Asia and Latin
America is at, or close to, 100%, we find that mobile phone ownership within African countries lags behind that of the rest of the
world (Fig. 2a). For example, in Angola, the Democratic Republic
of the Congo (DRC), Madagascar and Burundi, the subnational
averages for mobile phone ownership (for any kind of device) by
farming households range between 34% and 51% (Fig. 2a). The
numbers are higher in other African countries, such as Malawi,
Mozambique, Rwanda, Chad and Sierra Leone, nevertheless, more
than 30% of farming households in these countries still do not own a
mobile phone.
Furthermore, in some countries, farmer access to mobile phones
is similar to, or exceeds, that of non-farmers, whereas in other countries farmers are less likely to own mobile phones than non-farmers.
For example, in Angola, Madagascar and the DRC, ownership in
non-farming populations is 24%, 12% and 11% (percentage points)
higher, respectively, than in farming populations (Fig. 2a). Other
studies have pointed to a gender gap in mobile phone ownership,
with women being 14% less likely to own one (and 38% less likely
in South Asia). This means that there is not only a divide between
farming and non-farming populations, but also between men
and women within households22, and this poses a particular concern for inclusivity of interventions relating to primary care and
child nutrition.
It is well known that Internet access across countries in Asia,
Latin America and Africa still lags behind that in other regions of
the world such as North America and Europe, but we show that
Internet access also varies at the subnational level, and importantly,
between farming and non-farming populations. Internet access is
generally much lower than mobile handset ownership. For example, the average percentage of farming households with Internet
access is low in India (31%), and even lower in Pakistan (21%) and
Tajikistan (12%). Similarly, it is 25% in Mexico, 14% in Bolivia and
just 5% in Haiti. Furthermore, with the exception of Côte d’Ivoire,
Ghana and Namibia, we find that Internet access is less than 40%
of households, on average, for the remaining African countries
included in our analysis (Fig. 2b). In Costa Rica, Brazil and Angola,
the gap between Internet access for farmers and for the rest of the
population at the subnational level is on average 19%, 15% and 11%,
respectively (Fig. 2b). Farmers in these locations are bearing the
burden of the digital divide resulting from unequal Internet access,
which is unaccounted for in aggregated statistics.
Farmers, particularly smallholders, not only depend on the
installation of mobile networks and owning mobile handsets, but
they must also pay for data access. However, the access problems of
people living in poverty are often masked because the often-cited
average costs of data are based on mean incomes23. We disaggregated the costs of accessing data for ten income groups across 83
countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean,
and show that, for the poorest 10% of the population, the cost of
fully engaging in the digital economy is still prohibitively high
(Fig. 3). The situation is worst for some countries in sub-Saharan
Africa (the Central African Republic, the DRC, Guinea-Bissau,
Chad, Sierra Leone, Togo, Madagascar and Malawi) where the cost
of a basic 1GB monthly plan ranges from as much as 64% to 188% of
the annual income of the poorest 10% of the population. Although
incomes have risen and average Internet access costs have declined
in Africa in recent years, the cost of a basic 1GB monthly plan in the
last quarter of 2018 was still estimated to be more than a quarter of
the annual income of the poorest 10% in countries of the continent
(Fig. 3 inset). To put this into perspective, the 2025 target adopted
by the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development is that
entry-level broadband should be made available in all countries at
2% of gross national income per capita24.
Key recommendations
Our analyses show that substantial gaps still exist in the availability
of, and access to, data services for the world’s farming populations.
These gaps preclude the participation of many smallholders in the
latest technological innovations and need to be addressed if we are
to move towards fairer, more inclusive and equitable food systems
globally. Here, in light of these findings, we outline some key recommendations for governments, agricultural development organizations, funders, entrepreneurs and academics.
Invest in ‘last-mile infrastructure’ innovation. Closing the coverage gap will require continued innovation in three critical areas of
last-mile infrastructure: energy (for example, moving from diesel
generators to cost-efficient fuel cell generators or solar energy)25,
cell towers (for example, installing ‘light towers’ with reduced complexity or deployment costs) and backhaul technologies (for example, complementing fibre optics with innovations such as scalable
microwave ‘pay-as-you-grow’ solutions). Although efforts to bridge
coverage gaps using these, as well as other more radical cross-cutting
innovations that use satellites and wide-area deployments—such as
Google’s project Loon, OneWeb, or SpaceX’s Starlink—exist, their
success remains to be proven in many farming landscapes in the
world, and particularly in the African continent. Such investments
need to be supported by policies that lower regulatory friction,
increase open competition and reduce capital risks for the private
sector, especially in the early stages of deployment.
Increase handset affordability. Business model innovation will be
required to provide handsets that are both affordable and capable of
a seamless broadband experience. Existing business models include
upfront payment for handsets (which is not possible for the poorest sectors of society), asset financing (which allows access to credit
but has default risk) and third-party provision (by governments,
non-governmental organizations and private companies that derive
value from the user, but is often not sustainable). Average device
costs in emerging markets remain high (approximately US$100)26.
Affordability should be addressed from two perspectives. On the
one hand, incomes need to be increased by financing business growth and job creation, particularly for women and underserved
groups in rural communities27. On the other hand, device costs need
to be reduced by blending business models that create value between
state actors, financial institutions, mobile network operators, device
manufacturers and content providers24. Here, national agricultural
research services and research for development organizations can  play important roles to assist in the design of localized solutions for
farming populations.
Make data access universal. Innovation in infrastructure and business models can help to reduce the cost of deploying the last-mile
infrastructure, which, in turn, should be reflected in the price of
data for farmers. However, further actions will probably be required
to ensure accessibility to all. Given the importance of mobile technology, to bring everyone online globally currently translates to universal access to mobile broadband. In addition, because the poorest
farmers are unable to buy data, mobile broadband must be made a
public good. Although a public and donor-funded Universal Service
and Access Fund has been proposed to connect the poorest households in Africa to the Internet24, universal access should be made
available to farmers globally.
Identify interim solutions. SMS-based advisories and alerts, and
interactive voice response services that can run on low-end handsets, even if jointly owned or shared between community members,
offer an important opportunity for addressing bundled issues of
productivity, market connectivity, financial transfers, credit access,
input use and within-season management, across large areas of
farming landscapes globally2,14,28. These lean front-end solutions
can be built on sophisticated back-end services that interface with
the Internet and integrate remote sensing, ancillary data sets, and
mechanistic and statistical prediction tools2
. These interim solutions are essential for participation and inclusion, given current
availability and access patterns.
Operationalize these findings. This baseline analysis assesses the
digital divide in farming and regular operational updates will be
required to track progress in access and availability of information and communications technology (ICT)-enabled solutions
for agriculture. However, additional metrics, from availability
and access to utilization, are also needed. Utilization depends
on capacity building, skills transfer, digital literacy, cultural
appropriateness of services and the agency to use services, particularly across ages and genders. We recommend core public
research funding for this effort so that entrepreneurs, philanthropists and academics can better target their data-driven farming
interventions, and so that the benefits of these interventions can
be transparently assessed for positive farming and population
health outcomes.
The idea of a technology revolution in agriculture has captured
the minds of—and has secured funding from—donors, governments, national agricultural research services, development organizations, academic institutions and countless industry start-ups in
recent years1–5
. This vision is currently hindered by gaps in connectivity for farming populations. Emerging technologies such as 5G
promise even more capabilities29, but the benefits for data-driven
farming can never be fully realized as long as poor farmers are left
behind19. A re-ignition of international efforts to deliver agricultural
research for development is needed, this time not for the exchange
and delivery of advanced seeds but for the exchange and delivery
of data. This effort requires a fresh outlook, learning from the failures of previous revolutions in agriculture30, putting co-creation,
knowledge sharing and farmer empowerment at the core, and seeking solutions that harmonize across the Sustainable Development
Goals, particularly those related to education, gender inclusion,
and access to water and energy25,31. The work presented here may
provide a step in that direction and allows for the design of more
targeted interventions for all those invested in solving farming
problems by using data.
Methods
Details of the methods underlying specific components of this study are given below.
Coverage gaps. For the mobile service availability layers, we used a geographical
information system data set, developed by Mosaik Solutions, on global mobile
network coverage in 2018 for 910 entities running 2,391 networks in 229 countries
and territories, and representing 2G (CDMA, 1XRTT, GSM, GPRS, EDGE), 3G
(EVDO, UMTS, HDPA/+) and 4G (WiMax, LTE) services. This data set includes
data provided directly by service operators, as well as data available on operator
websites, in filings from regulatory bodies, and in the public domain, and is
recognized as an industry standard reference32. Our map of smallholder farms was
developed following the methods of ref. 33 and updated with the crowd-sourced
field sizes of ref. 34. Global layers representing nutrient deficits for 17 major
crops35 and aridity (annual precipitation <250mm (ref. 36)) were intersected with
cropland data37 (for aridity) and relevant crop types38 (for nutrient deficiency)
to create layers of cropland areas affected by each condition. Hotspots of yield
gaps39 were computed using the 90th percentile of the ratio of yield gaps to yield
potentials. Hotspots of rainfall-dependent croplands were computed using the
90th percentile of the ratio of green water to total water used for crop production
from ref. 40. We also assessed the cross-cutting themes of food insecurity and the
incidence of communicable diseases. We estimated the number of people affected
by food insecurity using maps21 that proxy food insecurity from the prevalence of
childhood stunting, and we computed Africa-wide estimates using the updated
data set of ref. 41. We computed the number of people infected by P. falciparum
using 2017 prevalence data from the Malaria Atlas Project (https://malariaatlas.
org/), and 2017 population estimates from LandScan42. For all layers, the coverage
gap was computed as the proportion of each layer of cropland area and population
classes covered by the 2G, 3G and 4G footprints.
Access gaps. We assessed access gaps in mobile phone ownership and Internet
access across Asia, Africa, and Latin America and the Caribbean by compiling
and harmonizing a sample of available subnationally representative micro-level
data from the Demographic Health Surveys (https://www.dhsprogram.com),
the Integrated Public Use Microdata Series (https://www.ipums.org), the Living
Standards Measurement Study from the World Bank (https://www.worldbank.org/
en/programs/lsms), and country-specific agricultural censuses, general household
surveys and family panel studies (see Data availability for our accompanying data
set). We define a farming household as one that owns usable land for agriculture
or one in which a household member works in an agricultural occupation.
Household mobile ownership is defined as a household that owns at least one
mobile phone, and Internet access is defined as a household that has access to the
Internet, through any device. Our sample represents farming and non-farming
household-level mobile ownership in 70 countries (38 in Africa, 15 in Asia and 17
in Latin America and the Caribbean) and in 5,429 subnational units (941 in Africa,
848 in Asia and 3,640 in Latin America and the Caribbean). Our sample also
represents farming and non-farming Internet access in 48 countries (20 in Africa,
11 in Asia and 17 in Latin America and the Caribbean) and 4,905 subnational units
(522 in Africa, 931 in Asia and 3,452 in Latin America and the Caribbean).
To centre mobile phone ownership data, we used available panel data sets of
ownership (from 2005 to 2017), for countries in each region (ten in Africa, five in
Asia and two in Latin America and the Caribbean). We estimated time-dependent
percentage point differences in ownership within each region and for farming
he UK Agri-Tech community is working with Colombian partners to develop bespoke solutions to agricultural challenges.

After five decades of internal armed conflict, the peace deal of 2016 has opened up new opportunities for increased prosperity in Colombia. The UK is providing support for this process through the £25 million Colombia Prosperity programme, focussing on infrastructure and agriculture sectors across post conflict and conflict-affected regions. The aim is to help Colombia achieve inclusive growth, poverty reduction, and gender equality¬†whilst also contributing to the improvement of the commercial environment so that international business, including UK companies, can compete favourably in new markets.

In a recent initiative, the Colombian Prosperity Fund Programme and Innovate UK announced an investment of up to £3 million to support innovation projects that address challenges facing the agriculture sector. The Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN) provided a substantial amount of support for the Agri-tech Catalyst Colombia, working closely with Innovate UK, FCO (Foreign and Commonwealth Office), and CIAT.

Photo galleries are not available for content from the previous KTN website: we apologise for this.

How did KTN support the Agri-tech Catalyst Colombia?

KTN’s activities in support of the Agri-tech Catalyst Colombia included:

Increasing awareness of the Agri-tech Catalyst Colombia (you can sign up for our newsletters here)
Hosting a briefing event for potential applicants (watch the video here)
Matchmaking between UK and Colombian partners. KTN hosted databases of potential applicants from both the UK and Colombia and our team were able to facilitate new collaborations via our contacts at CIAT
Assisting with a mission to Colombia to allow UK delegates to meet Colombian partners and providing them with opportunities to learn more about the specific agricultural challenges
Promoting the mission opportunity to the UK Agri-Tech community and supporting the selection process
Accompanying the UK delegation to Colombia and providing post-mission support
Liaising with Colombian organisations that our team met in Colombia and helping them to find partners in the UK
Providing advice on the application process and reviewing draft applications (the competition closed on 25th July 2018)
Photo galleries are not available for content from the previous KTN website: we apologise for this.

On a mission to support Agri-Tech take-up in Colombia

The Agri-tech Catalyst Colombia competition aimed to support inclusive growth in the Colombian and UK Agri-tech sector through the development of innovative technologies, products and services. It was essential for potential UK applicants to have a good understanding of the particular needs and challenges of Colombian Agriculture. In addition, projects needed to be collaborative and include at least one UK and one Colombian partner, so there was a need to facilitate introductions between UK and Colombian organisations.

Working in collaboration with CIAT, KTN helped organise a partnering mission to Colombia for 15 UK applicants whose Agri-Tech expertise included sensor and monitoring networks, satellite observation, plant, animal and fish breeding, block chain technology secure supply chains and food manufacturing. Over a week the UK delegates met with 150 organisations, took part in 168 meetings, and took part in tours of Colombian agriculture sites, helping then to gain a greater understanding of the challenges and opportunities of the Colombian agriculture, and to establish strong collaborations with Colombian partners.

KTN’s Dr Liliya Serazetdinova (Knowledge Transfer Manager – Agri-Food), Nee-Joo Teh (Head of International & Development) and Jess Sully (Projects Support Manager – International & Development) accompanied the delegates on the mission.

Speaking about the mission, Dr Liliya Serazetdinova said:

“The Programme attracted very high interest from both the UK and the Colombian partners. The in-country partner, CIAT, played a major role in ensuring this success by promoting the Programme in Colombia and facilitating in-country meetings and visits to three locations during the mission.

“Colombia is hungry for innovation to support the rebuilding of its economy after the conflict, and agriculture is seen as a key sector. During the partnering mission we saw why – this is the country with the most biodiversity on Earth, it has rich water resources, and it produces a wide range of crops throughout the year. However, productivity is low, and small-holder communities, especially women led farming units, need more support, improved knowledge of agri-tech technologies, and help to link into higher value chains.

“Most of the crops grown in Colombia are utilised around the globe in high value products that we use every day, but they also produce a wide range of other crops including fruits, berries that are new both to the UK and Europe and have potential to support local communities.

“We were surprised with the level of existing knowledge and interest in precision agriculture, digital technologies and the interest in organic crop production. Through this Programme we have met many research organisations, grower and trade associations, and entrepreneurs who are enthusiastic about growing the Colombian Agri-food sector, and keen to build links with UK partners.”






