About research on agrobiodiversity at CIAT
CIAT develops more resilient and productive varieties of cassava and common beans, as well as tropical forages for livestock. It also works to improve rice production in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Superior crop varieties, the product of our collaborative work, provide multiple valuable traits such as high yield and stress tolerance, which are vital to securing global food supplies in the face of rapidly growing demand, changing disease and insect pressures, rampant environmental degradation and the imminent threat of climate change.
Using artificial intelligence, scientists have created an easy-to-use tool to detect banana diseases and pests. With a 90 percent success rate in detecting a pest or disease, the tool can help growers avoid millions of dollars in losses.
AI-powered tools are rapidly becoming more accessible, even to people in the most remote corners of the planet. This is good news for small farmers, who can use portable technologies to manage their farms more efficiently, linking them to markets, extension agents, satellite images and weather information. The technology is also becoming a first line of defense against diseases and pests that can potentially destroy your crop yields.
A new smartphone tool for banana growers scans plants for signs of five major diseases and one common pest. In tests conducted in Colombia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India, Benin, China, and Uganda, the tool showed a 90 percent successful detection rate. This work is a step toward creating a globally connected, satellite-powered network to control disease and pest outbreaks, say the researchers who developed the technology. The findings were published this week in the journal Plant Methods.
“Growers around the world are struggling to defend their crops from pests and diseases,” says lead author Michael Selvaraj, who developed the tool with colleagues from Bioversity International in Africa. “There is very little information on banana pests and diseases for low-income countries, but an AI tool like this offers an opportunity to improve crop surveillance, streamline control and mitigation efforts, and help growers. to prevent production losses.
Researchers from the Imayam Institute of Agriculture and Technology (IIAT) in India and Texas A&M University are part of the group of co-authors.
Bananas are the most popular fruit on the planet and with the world population poised to reach 10 billion people by 2050, the pressure is mounting to produce enough food. Many countries will continue to rely on international trade to ensure their food security. By 2050, net cereal imports of developing countries are estimated to more than double from 135 million metric tons in 2008/09 to 300 million in 2050. Bananas are an essential food product for many families and a crucial source nutrition and income. However, pests and diseases – Xanthomonas wilt, Fusarium wilt, black leaf streak (or black Sigatoka), to name a few – threaten to damage the fruit. And when a disease outbreak does occur, the effects on smallholder livelihoods can be detrimental.
In the few cases in which losses have been estimated due to the fungus Fusarium Tropical race 4, in Indonesia they have amounted to US$121 million, in Taiwan to US$253.3 million and in Malaysia to $14.1 million (Aquino, Bandoles and Lim, 2013). In Africa, where the fungus was first reported in 2013 in northern Mozambique, the number of symptomatic plants reached more than 570,000 in September 2015.
The tool is embedded in an app called Tumaini – which means “hope” in Swahili – and is designed to help small banana farmers detect a disease or pest and prevent a widespread outbreak from occurring. The app seeks to link them with extension agents to stop the outbreak quickly. You can also upload data to a global system for large-scale process monitoring and control. The objective of the application is to facilitate a robust and easy-to-deploy response to support banana producers who need to control crop diseases.
The overall high accuracy rates obtained during beta testing of the app show that Tumaini has what is required to become a very useful tool for early detection of diseases and pests”, said Guy Blomme, of Bioversity International. “It has great potential for eventual integration into a fully automated mobile application incorporating satellite and drone imagery to help millions of banana farmers in low-income countries have timely access to crop disease information.”
The Tumaini app was made possible by rapid improvements in image recognition technology. To develop it, the researchers uploaded 20,000 images depicting various visible symptoms of banana diseases and pests into the system. With this information, the app scans photos of parts of the fruit, bunch or plant to determine the nature of the disease or pest. Subsequently, it provides the necessary steps to face the specific disease. In addition, the app also logs data, including geographic location, and feeds into a larger database.
Existing crop disease detection models focus primarily on leaf symptoms and can only work accurately when photos show detached leaves against a plain background. The novelty in this application is that it can detect symptoms on any part of the crop and is trained to be able to read lower quality images, even with irregularities in the background, such as other plants or leaves, to maximize accuracy. It's not just an app,” Selvaraj said. "But a tool that contributes to an early warning system that directly supports producers, allowing better protection and development of the crop and better decision-making on food security issues" This study, implemented by the Alliance between Bioversity International and the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), has demonstrated the potential of modern technologies such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, robotics, satellites, cloud computing and machine learning for the transformation of agriculture and to help producers. Bioversity International and CIAT's Research Area on Agrobiodiversity supported this project with funding and scientific expertise for the collection and processing of images in the field within the framework of the CGIAR Research Program on Roots, Tubers and Bananas (RTB). RTB works globally to harness the untapped potential of these crops to improve the food security, income, and resilience to climate change of smallholders, especially women and youth.
CGIAR is a global research alliance for a future without hunger, dedicated to reducing poverty, contributing to food and nutrition security, and enhancing natural resources.
Bananas (Musa spp.) are one of the most important fruit crops in the world in terms of volume of production and trade
[one]. Tough an important staple food in Africa, Asia and Latin America, only 13% of the bananas produced are traded globally [2], clearly indicating the importance of the fruit in domestic markets and food security. In East and Central Africa, it is a substantial dietary component, accounting for more than 50% of the total daily food intake in parts of Uganda.
and Rwanda [3]. Smallholder farmers, who make up 85% of the world's farms [4], face many biotic and abiotic constraints. Several banana pests and diseases have caused significant yield losses in production landscapes [5] and are a significant threat to global food security. Therefore, early detection of pests and diseases in the field is a
crucial first step. Traditional pest and disease identification approaches rely on agricultural extension specialists, but these approaches are limited in developing countries with low human infrastructure capacity. Many small farmers rely on empirical knowledge, which is less effective in overcoming agricultural challenges [6]. Early identification of a crop disease or pest can lead to a
interventions with consequent reduced impacts on food supply chains. Artificial intelligence (AI) with deep learning models that help identify plant diseases by appearance and visual symptoms that mimic human behavior should be considered [7]. Smartphone-based AI applications could alert farmers and speed up disease diagnosis, thus preventing potential pest outbreak
and diseases [8]. Although many farmers in developing countries do not have access to These advanced tools, Internet infiltration and smartphone penetration offer new advances for crop disease detection in the field. The Global System for Mobile Association (GMSA) predicted that global smartphone subscriptions would reach 5 billion
by 2020, of which almost a billion in Africa [9]. We do believe that cutting-edge technologies such as AI, IoT (Internet of Tings), robotics, satellites, cloud computing, and machine learning are transfiguring agriculture and helping farmers envision their near future. Deep learning is a novel method for image processing
and object detection with higher accuracy in the classification of various crop diseases [10]. Transfer learning is one of those popular approaches in deep learning, where pre-trained models are adapted to do a new task. Deep Transfer Learning (DTL) generates a new framework for digital image processing and predictive analysis, with
higher accuracy and has great potential in detecting crop diseases. The DTL approach also offers a promising avenue for disease recognition in the field using large trained image data sets and offers direct access to models developed to meet the constraints offered by mobile application technology [11]. Tis would have a different practice
value for the actual field environment. Previous research has validated AI-based recognition of crop diseases in wheat [12], cassava [11], and on datasets of healthy and diseased plants [8, 13]. Recognition of crop diseases based on a computerized imaging system
through feature extraction has revealed promising results [14] but feature extraction is computationally rigorous and involves expert knowledge for a robust representation. Only a few large and restricted curated image datasets exist from the crop disease library [10]. The PlantVillage platform supports
more than 50,000 images of different crops and diseases [15]. However, most of these images were taken with shedding leaves on a plain background, and CNN trained on these images did not perform well when real field images were used [8]. To build robust and more practical detection models, many healthy and diseased images taken from
different infected parts of plants, and growing under different environmental conditions are needed. These images must subsequently be labeled and pre-selected by experts in plant pathology. So far, existing crop diseases detection models focus mainly on leaf symptoms.
Unfortunately, numerous symptoms also appear on other parts of the plant and the best examples are banana blight and related disease symptoms. The objective of this study was to apply state-of-the-art deep learning techniques for the detection of banana disease and pest symptoms in different parts of the banana plant. We also consider the potential
to adapt pre-trained deep learning CNN models to detect banana diseases and pest symptoms using a large dataset of expertly pre-selected real field images collected from Africa and India. Banana is subject to various types of pests and diseases whose symptoms occur in different parts of the
the plant (Table 1). The occurrences of these diseases depend on many factors, such as the environment, temperature, humidity, rainfall, variety, season, nutrition, etc. For example, certain diseases are localized to a particular country, region or continent, such as Xanthomonas wilt of banana, which is very specific to Africa. Therefore, reliable and accurate image collection at hotspots and strong tagging are very important.
Since we are aiming for a global solution, we collected the image dataset of major banana diseases from different disease hotspots through our CGIAR network. Publicly available datasets poorly cover banana disease/pest
Symptom images and the public PlantVillage dataset does not include banana images by far. We collected our own datasets of specific pathogen-infected leaves at different stages of infection and other infected plant parts such as whole plants, fruit bunches, cut fruits, pseudostem and corms, etc. with the help of well-trained staff
banana experts using different cameras with various resolutions (Table 1, Fig. 2). Currently, our CIATBioversity, CGIAR dataset contains more than 18,000 original field images shortlisted by experts, but in this study we used only 12,600 images to create banana image datasets. Since our ultimate goal is to develop a
mobile-assisted banana disease detection tool global/worldwide banana growers and the global scientific community, we enriched our image library with a diverse collection of images from different disease hotspots (Additional file 2: Table S1). To build a robust model, real-time images were captured
field scenarios in banana farms. A heterogeneous background is an essential feature of any real field image, most of the publicly available datasets are images of leaves in a controlled environment and simple background. For this reason, we try to create many variations while collecting data from the field. you more the
variation in the data set, the better the generalization of the trained model. Images were captured with different camera devices (Additional file 2: Table S1) with diverse backgrounds. Additionally, the challenging part of our imagery dataset is the background variations caused by the field environment, dry leaves on
the ground, overlapping leaves of neighboring plants etc. This made our model more robust to adapt to any changes in the background in real time. We annotate the images to train our CNN by placing the images of different classes in different folders. We randomly select 75% of the images from each class and
put them in a training set. Also, another 25% of images from each class were put into a test set. The training and test set contained 700 real field images per class (700 × 18 classes = 12,600) which has made the data set well balanced. The categories and number of annotated samples used in our system can
can be seen in Table 1. We carried out a strong labeling approach whereby banana experts confirmed the typical symptoms in each and every image of the data set, as a result we ended up with a total of 30,952 annotations (Table one). Although this strategy is time consuming, we worked with three human experts to
annotate the entire banana dataset which took almost 4 weeks. The tedium of data collection and labeling had forced previous studies [29, 30] to use small data sets to train and test classifiers. The use of labels on small data sets is also a limiting factor in machine learning,
and can lead to over or underestimation [31]. Most of the publicly available datasets are weakly labeled and resulted in poor performance. Loss function We summarized the total loss function (Additional file 1: Fig. S1a–f) only for the winning models (Additional file 2: Table S3). In general, we could observe that
accuracy increased while loss gradually decreased with epoch. For the Corm damage images, the report error was high until iteration 1500, then it started to go down and after step 4000 it remained constant (Additional File 1: Fig. S1f), the same behavior was noticed in Pseudostem and Fruits. Cut (Additional
fle 1: Fig. S1c, e), where after 2000 iterations the error remained constant until the end. For the whole plant and leaves (Additional File 1: Fig. S1a, b), although a loss was found to be below 0.3 in the last iteration, it suffered due to many variations, which was evident from these two models (plant whole and leaf) were found
be inaccurate compared to other models studied (Table 3). The probable reason was clearly explained (KolFACI) and the Bioversity Alliance – CIAT launch a research project that seeks to build capacities among the nine partner countries, the dissemination of improved bean varieties and the selection of new varieties with better tolerance to climate change. “We are jointly creating a bright future for agriculture,” said KolFACI Director.
Through virtual means, researchers from nine countries are meeting today to launch a collaborative initiative to tackle the looming threat of drought with climate change.
This is the start-up of the project "Research on drought tolerance of common beans in Latin America to face climate change", led by the Cooperation Initiative for Food and Agriculture between Korea and Latin America ( KolFACI) and the Alliance Bioversity International and the International Center for AgriTropical culture (CIAT).
At the opening event, experts in bean cultivation from Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Peru and the Dominican Republic will discuss the roadmap of the project that seeks to build capacities among partner countries , the dissemination of improved varieties and the selection of new varieties with better tolerance to climate change.
The variation in climate and occasional droughts have always been a problem that creates instability in production and increases in prices to the public. Climate change threatens to make the situation worse, and forecasts indicate that regions like Central America may see dry years more often.
According to the scientist Beebe “It is common in the region that between 20% and 30% of children suffer from anemia due to lack of iron in the diet and this is a problem that can harm their mental capacity for life. Beans are a source of iron and can help reduce the risk of anemia.
For his part, Choi Suntay, director of KoLFACI, expressed his satisfaction with the project stating that "We are jointly creating a bright future for agriculture." KolFACI is an initiative developed by the Department of Rural Administration of South Korea, whose mission is to share knowledge and experience in agricultural technology and extension services to promote sustainable agricultural development in the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
The scarcity of beans in the market causes great inequities in the population and contributes to the malnutrition suffered in some Latin American countries. The diversity and use of tropical forages for livestock feeding are protagonists in livestock systems. The production and nutritional quality of forages represent a continuous research strategy in animal feed to help mitigate the environmental impact generated by tropical livestock. The objective of this study was to classify the nutritional behavior in contrasting seasons and the relationship with the agronomic characteristics of a collection of 129 accessions of CIAT (International Center for Tropical Agriculture) of Megathyrsus Maximus established in the Colombian dry tropics. Crude protein (PC), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), acid detergent fiber (ADF) and in vitro dry matter digestibility (IVDMD) were determined using the near-infrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS) technique. ) in rainy and dry seasons. as fixed effects. We measured plant height, dry matter biomass (DSB) and flowering in the field. Aspects such as plant height and DMB did not show a correlation with nutritional aspects, while flowering did correlate with structural carbohydrate content. Although genotype and precipitation affect nutritional value, there is relative nutritional stability in NDF, ADF and DIVMS between seasons for some accessions. According to the cluster analysis carried out for each season, it was shown that of the total collection, 51.2% of the accessions in the dry season and 19.4% of the accessions in the rainy season were classified with a better nutritional profile, thus showing a greater number of materials with better nutritional behavior in the dry season. Both the genotypic characteristics of M. maximus and the environmental conditions during the contrasting seasons are factors.
As part of its Vision 2020 for Food, Agriculture and Environment initiative, the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) held workshops in three developing regions of the world. The workshop on Latin America, sponsored jointly by the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA), the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), and IFPRI, was held in Cali, Colombia, from March 20-22, 1995. This paper is based on discussions among some 30 Latin American researchers, technical experts, and policymakers who participated in the workshop. The facts and figures presented here are drawn from the documents presented at the workshop, and the goals and strategies are those achieved by the workshop participants. The nations of Latin America are experiencing dramatic economic, political, and social changes. The effects on poverty, food security and the environment are uncertain. Change, however, offers opportunities. Latin America now has a historic opportunity to achieve by the year 2020 a vision where extreme poverty, hunger and severe malnutrition have been eradicated; where income, wealth, and opportunity are more evenly and fairly distributed; and where all citizens enjoy clean and healthy environments and work together to to use and protect the natural resources of the region for themselves and for future generations.
that can influence the variability of the nutritional content, the productive parameters and the flowering. In addition, the classification of the forage material according to the Hotelling's T-square test and the nutritional classification index suggests accessions that could be promising for resilient nutritional quality and adequate DMB, demonstrating that M. maximus could become an alternative for animal feed and sustainable livestock production during critical periods of drought. in tropical agroecosystems.
In Katumani, Eastern Kenya, 47 accessions of eight different species of the genus Brachiaria (now: Urochloa) obtained from the germplasm bank of the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in Colombia were characterized using a set of 22 agronomic and morphological characters. Most of the accessions originated in East Africa. For this purpose, 12 seedlings were transplanted in plots of a line at a distance of 10 cm between them. Observations were made on 10 plants and multivariate methods were used for data analysis in order to group accessions with similar agronomic and morphological characteristics. Principal component analysis (PCA) allowed us to identify four components with eigenvalues ​​> 1, where the first and second represented 23.8 and 20.2% of variation, respectively. In the cluster analysis, five main groups were identified, differentiated by characteristics: days to 50% flowering, flowering duration and plant display. Leafiness, growth habit, culm thickness and stigma color did not show significant differences between groups. The results provided useful information on the agronomic and morphological diversity among accessions, but the small size of the collection did not allow us to identify the extent of variation in this genus. Important variables such as dry matter yield and chemical composition of these accessions should be evaluated before proceeding with similar work in the field.
The common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) is the most important food legume for human consumption. Drought stress is the main abiotic stress limitation of bean yields in smallholder farming systems around the world. The current work aimed to determine the role of enhanced photosynthates mobilization in enhancing adaptation to intermittent and terminal drought stress and to identify some key adaptive traits that can be used to develop drought-resistant genotypes. Field studies were conducted over three seasons at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture, Palmira, Colombia to determine genotypic differences in adaptation to intermittent (two seasons) and terminal (one season) drought stress compared to irrigated conditions. A set of 36 genotypes, including 33 common bean, two wild bean, and one cowpea, were evaluated using a 6 × 6 lattice design under irrigated and rainfed field conditions. Three elite common bean lines (NCB 226, SEN 56, SER 125) with superior levels of adaptation to intermittent and terminal drought stress conditions were identified. The higher yield of these lines under drought stress was associated with their ability to remobilize photosynthates to increase grain yield as a function of higher values ​​of harvest index, pod harvest index, leaf area index, and canopy biomass. . Two wild bean germplasm accessions (G 19902, G 24390) showed very poor adaptation to both types of drought stress. A small-seeded black line (NCB 226) was superior in the combination of higher canopy biomass values ​​with greater ability to mobilize photosynthates to grain under both types of drought stress. Two small-seeded red lines (SER 78, SER 125) appear to combine the desirable characteristics of increased mobilization of photosynthates to seed with effective water use through canopy cooling under terminal drought stress. The pod harvest index showed a significant positive association with grain yield under both types of drought stress and this trait can be used by breeders as an additional selection method to grain yield in the evaluation of breeding populations for both types of drought stress.
Anthony (Tony) Bellotti's career as a humanitarian and entomologist followed a path that took him to El Salvador with the Peace Corps (PC) in 1962, the State of New Mexico for a Master's Degree, Paraguay (again with the Peace Corps) , University from Cornell for a Ph.D., and Colombia where he worked for the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) from 1974 until his death in March 2013 in Naples, Florida. Tony became a passionate advocate for cassava and one of the world's foremost authorities on the entomology of that orphan crop that sustains millions of the world's poorest people. Tony played a crucial role in one of the most cited and successful examples of classical biological control, the introduction of a parasitoid wasp from Paraguay to control the cassava mealybug in a wide area of ​​Africa known as the cassava belt. His career spanned a period of time that could be termed a golden age of commodity programs at international "CG Centers" organized under the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), following in the footsteps of Norman Borlaug and Robert McNamara. , the unlikely alliance that led to the Green Revolution. Among Tony's minor accomplishments was the author's employment at CIAT in 1986, where I worked on tropical forage pests and later on integrated pest management of cassava in northeastern Brazil and western Africa. Tony was a mentor and friend whose career offers the opportunity to see a unique life and his contributions to international agriculture.
The effect of processing on the cyanogenic potential of the roots of two new cassava cultivars (TME 419 and TMS 98/0505) obtained from the germplasm bank of the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) Cali, Colombia and cultivated at the National Institute of Root Crops Research (NRCRI) ) Umudike, Nigeria, was studied by the spectrophotometric method. These cultivars are planted and distributed to farmers by NRCRI, Umudike, but their cyanogenic potential in their new climatic environment before and after processing has not been evaluated. The cyanogenic potential of root pulp in its raw form ranged from 40.0 + 0.2 to 60.0 + 0.3 mgCN-kg-1, while processing into gari and oven-dried flakes resulted in a cyanogenic potential of 0.29 + 0.01 mgCN-kg-1 for the cultivar TME 419. and 0.2 + 0.05mgCN-kg-1 for TMS 98/0505 for gari and 36.06mgCN-kg-1 for TME 419 and 34.16 mgCN-kg-1 for TMS 98/0505 respectively for chips. Therefore, the use of the processing methods used in this study has drastically reduced the cyanogenic potential of the product to safe levels. In times of scarcity, farmers resort to preserving feed through anaerobic fermentation processes, known as silage. . Once the silo is opened, the substrate is aerobically stable if it retains its nutritional integrity when opened. This is the result of an acidic environment that restricts the deleterious effects of the action of pathogenic microorganisms, expressed as indicators of stability to aerobic exposure. One of the empirical problems faced by the producer is to resolve the question of how to avoid the deterioration of the silage once opened, for which this research points to the resistance in the aerobic exposure period (PEA) of a Pennisetum purpureum silage (PP ) with different substitution levels of Tithonia diversifolia (TD). The study was conducted at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture in Colombia. With a silage of 90 days of fermentation, a seven-day aerobic stability test was carried out, using one kilogram of silage in different proportions (%) of TD/PP: 100/0, 67/33, 33/67 and 0/ 100 enriched with two additives based on Lactobacillus. The change in dry matter, temperature and pH was measured, finding stability to aerobic exposure. The role of DT is remarkable once the silage enters the PEA due to the buffering capacity that buffers the change in pH once the silo is opened, generating greater aerobic stability.
The systematization of experiences (ES), although initial, with the appropriation of the knowledge produced between researchers and coffee growers in southwestern Colombia, was carried out through qualitative approaches supported by ethnography and using the case study typology. We seek to generate knowledge about experiences to determine social, cultural and environmental factors that can stimulate the appropriation of knowledge under a premise of inclusive research. For the ES of biodegradable packaging for coffee seedlings, the sections and guidelines proposed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (Acosta, 2005) and the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (Mosquera, 2010) were followed. These were complemented with workshops and semi-structured interviews that made it possible to identify, record and adjust processes in the coffee culture, as well as its relationship with the environment. wellbeing and disposal of solid waste. As motivations of the family and the group, they were identified in the traditional practices and in the interest of the producers for training or for environmental problems that could stimulate the appropriation process. Coffee producers also recognize the implementation of biodegradable packaging as an adjustable and viable strategy to mitigate environmental problems. Finally, to conclude that, in order to achieve the appropriation of research results in rural areas, it is important to strengthen the connection between academia and rural communities to propose solutions that promote the exchange of knowledge, but not its imposition.
The information of the existing phenotypic diversity of Urochloa grass is important in the selection for the development of grasses. Forty-seven accessions of 8 different species of Urochloa obtained from the germplasm bank of the International Center for Tropical Agriculture in Colombia were characterized using a set of 22 agronomic and morphological characters. Most of the accessions were from the East African region. The accessions were planted in December 2013 at Katumani in eastern Kenya. Twelve seedlings from each accession were transplanted into single row plots with a 10 cm spacing between plants. Agromorphological data were collected from the 10 intermediate plants of each accession. Multivariate analyzes were applied to group accessions with similar agronomic and morphological characteristics. Principal components analysis revealed 4 components with eigenvalues ​​greater than 1, with the first and second components accounting for 23.8 and 20.2% of the variation, respectively. Cluster analysis identified 5 main groups largely differentiated by days to 50% flowering, duration of flowering, and plant spread. Leafiness, growth habit, culm thickness and stigma color did not show significant differences between bunches. The results provided useful information on the diversity in agronomy and morphology that exists among the accessions, but the collection was not diverse enough and a much larger sample of accessions is needed to identify the true degree of variation in this genus. Important variables such as dry matter yield and chemical composition of these accessions would need to be evaluated before proceeding with any further evaluation in the field.
The common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) is the most important grain legume for human consumption and drought stress affects more than 60% of dry bean production worldwide. Field and rain protection studies were conducted at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Palmira, Colombia to (i) evaluate phenotypic differences in drought resistance in Andean and Mesoamerican gene pools, (ii) identify Andean and Mesoamerican genotypes with superior drought resistance, and (iii) identify phenotypic traits that may be useful to improve drought resistance in common beans. A total of 24 bean genotypes, twelve genotypes belonging to the Mesoamerican gene pool and twelve to the Andean gene pool, were evaluated in the field with two levels of water supply (irrigation and temporary) and drought managed under conditions of protection against rain. The results showed that five Mesoamerican lines SEA 5, SEA 15, SER 22, SER 16, SER 8 and an Andean line SEQ 1003 have superior resistance to drought. The superior performance of these lines under drought stress was associated with better canopy biomass at mid-pod fill that could be related to a deeper root system and effective water use, combined with efficient remobilization. of photosynthates from vegetative structures to pod development (pod partition index). , PPI) and grain filling (pod harvest index, PHI). Pod harvest index could be a useful selection criterion for drought resistance to improve the efficiency of breeding programs to select superior common bean genotypes.