Since the time of the last EPMR, five CCERs were conducted at CIAT: Spatial Analysis
(December 2003); Agrobiodiversity (May 2006); Agroecosystems (May 2006); Rural
Innovation Institute (May 2006); Governance, Management and Finance (May 2006). A brief
discussion of each CCER is presented below, with an overview of the recommendations, the
EPMR Panel’s views of the CCER, and the center’s response. Overall, the EPMR Panel
appreciates the good work that was done in the CCERs, and refers to it in this EPMR report.
Common themes across CCERs included the need for focus and improved disciplinary
integration of CIATʹs research program. The Panel recognizes that these are important issues
at an institutional level. However, the Panel notes that the CCERs did not cover CIATʹs
regional operations, where disciplinary integration is evident.
Spatial analysis CCER
The review targeted the now defunct Land Use Project, which contained the spatial analysis
group. That group has now become part of the People and Agroecosystems Challenge, and is
16
now contributing to several of the new product lines in that program. Many of the findings of
the CCER, which focused on the detailed operation at this unit/sub‐unit level, are now not
directly relevant. However, the evaluation was thorough, the report well reasoned, and
focused at a logical level between project detail and broader issues. Hence, some of the
observations remain useful to this EPMR. The reviewers noted: key strength in staff and
capabilities in management and analysis of spatial data; too many activities – need to better
define core business and focus; tendency to product/tool focus with poor publication record;
need for tools and methods development to be better aligned with need or user demand; and
gaps in skill base but should use collaboration to fill them.
There were 14 specific recommendations grouped under six sub‐headings and CIAT agreed
with all of them. The recommendations most relevant to this EPMR related to focus and
strategy. The recommendations sought a clear vision and focus for the research, and
integration of bio‐physical and socioeconomic aspects to deliver triple bottom line outcomes.
This highlights the need for this specialist sub‐unit to collaborate closely with others to be
effective. Effective strategies are required for linking with broader problem domains across
CIAT in a demand‐driven manner. There is some movement of this nature with recent relocation of
some staff and interaction with integrated projects in regions but effective integration remains elusive.
Agrobiodiversity CCER
The review resulted in 24 recommendations. Following is a general summary of the main
issues covered by those recommendations. The CCER judged the scientific work performed
by CIAT staff in this area to be excellent.  
The CCER Panel indicated that milestones are not apparent in the organization of the
Agrobiodiversity activity, but that there was a great improvement in coordination and in the
system to set priorities, which enhanced the competencies across different projects. CIAT
overall priorities seem to be defined at the individual project level rather than being based on
a set of integrated and interconnected priorities aimed at giving technological solutions and
increasing basic knowledge. The Agrobiodiversity research agenda is now well focused on
the four product lines: beans, forage, rice and cassava. Even though the research projects span
a broad area from gene discovery to variety development, they seem to be well
interconnected with well balanced activities between basic and applied research.
Another concern of the Panel regarded IPR issues. Although the position of Director for
Public Private Partnership was created, no improvement in the center strategy on this issue
was noticed. Indeed no systematized, clear policy on IPR issues is used by the center.
Initiatives on IPR are individual efforts of scientists. An IP committee was created at CIAT
with the intent to improve the awareness and skills of the staff and link to support form
CIAT’s legal office on IP issues. However, the Panel did not observe any systematized process
on IPR issues of CIAT and furthermore it was difficult to understand the role of the Director
of Public Private Partnership on IPR issues. CIAT will need to outsource legal expertise to
take care of individual situations. There is limited internal expertise to give the matter the
appropriate treatment.  
Finally the Panel emphasized that Agrobiodiversity has an excellent and motivated research
team with strong leadership, which has catalyzed strong integration among different
disciplines. The 6th EPMR Panel is in general agreement with the findings of the CCER.
17
Agroecosystems CCER
At the time of the review of the Improving Management of Agroecosystems in the Tropics
(IMAT) program, IMAT consisted of a cluster of 4 projects: Crop and Agroecosystem Health;
Tropical Soils (TSBF); Communities and Watersheds; Spatial and Economic Analysis. The
CCER report was insightful and thorough and provided useful input to this EPMR. The
review noted: high quality of science; incomplete integration of social, economic, and
ecological analysis with technology development and testing; need for constant fund‐raising
has dispersed scientific effort and burdened scientists with management; flexibility needed in
fund‐raising has come at a cost in strategic direction; there is a major vacuum in research
leadership to orchestrate needed integration; and need for a few fully integrated and
networked projects.
While the reviewers delivered 46 recommendations, the majority focused on issues of detail
inside the 4 project areas forming the IMAT program. In responding, CIAT agreed with all
recommendations, although only ‘substantially’ or ‘partially’ with some. There were 12 cross‐
cutting recommendations that were most relevant to the EPMR. Of these the key
recommendations on integration suggested establishing fully integrated projects by merging
skills from current programs, fusing the proposed 3 R&D Challenges to 2 by integrating
IMAT with the then Enabling Rural Innovation (ERI) project to form People and
Agroecosystems, and that conceptual framing and prioritization of major projects should
occur as an iterative process between research leaders and management. CIAT implemented
the suggestion on having 2 R&D Challenges, and has since implemented a product line
approach within the RDCs. Along with this, there is now a research leadership team
consisting of DDG Research, regional research leaders, and RDC research leaders, but its role
in framing and prioritizing major integrated projects remains ill‐defined as the product line
approach focuses on component activities/outputs rather than on fully integrated projects
directed at outcomes at agroecosystem level. Hence, the recommendation to establish fully
integrated research projects remains unfulfilled. The CCER also suggested strengthening the
Impact Assessment group to support decision‐making on research resource allocation. The Panel
believes that this remains an unfulfilled need.
Rural Innovation Institute CCER
At the time of the review, the Rural Innovation Institute (RII) was comprised of three projects;
Rural Agro‐enterprise Development, Participatory Research Methods, and Information for
Development. RII also hosted the CGIAR systemwide program on participatory research and
gender analysis (PRGA). The RII was dissolved in 2007 when CIAT reorganized its research
activities into two RDCs. Scientists previously affiliated with RII projects have either been
terminated or have been distributed among the new RDCs, primarily in the Agroecosystems
RDC.    
It was suggested, and the EPMR Panel agrees, that PRGA has had a major impact on how the
CGIAR system deals with gender and status inequities. While a number of innovative
research strategies have been developed in PRGA and the impact assessment work of the
program was found to be of good quality, there has not been systematic data collection and
analysis, and no academic breakthroughs on participatory research. The high quality of the
rural agroenterprise development learning alliances was noted. On the other hand many
references were made to the weakness or lack of research output of the RII. “There are manydescriptive papers but few analytical ones”;” The research insights (hence research quality) gleaned
from that facilitation/development action are so far low”;” The Institute at present is undertaking
development action that is, in its great majority, not produced as IPG, but is rather a localized, private
good only”;” Neither the incentive nor the capacity is in place at present to produce research at a
minimally acceptable level. The present level is in fact well below an “international” level, and in many
cases is far behind and below the present state of knowledge.”  
The CCER made 6 recommendations. CIAT agreed to 5, and substantially agreed to the other
recommendation. The recommendations were all very general; none call for any specific
action. All recommendations are related to the research focus and methods of the RII. It was
recommended that RII move from a method driven to an issue driven approach and that
linkages across RII projects and to other CIAT activities increase. The CCER recommended
that RII move from generating manuals and development activity to IPG publications on
methods. It was also recommended that an attempt be made to synthesize RII experiences.
The CIAT reply is vague. Given the criticisms of the program’s output and management, the Panel
believes that CIAT’s response of closing the unit and re‐assigning individuals to work within product
lines seems an appropriate direction. An open question remains whether further pruning and
consolidation of former RII activities is merited.  
Upon dissolution of the RII, an agreement was signed by CIAT’s DG to create the Foundation
for Rural Innovation (FRI). Other signatories to the agreement were the executive director of
FRI (the former leader of the RII), the executive director of CORPOICA (and a member of
CIAT’s BOT), and the Fundación Alvaro Alice (and a member of CIAT’s BOT). CIAT’s policy
requires that the DG seek BOT approval for agreements such as this to take effect. At its May
2007 meeting, CIAT’s Board rejected this agreement. CIAT management and Colombian
partners invested significant efforts in establishing FRI, and the signing of the agreement was
widely reported in the Colombian press. The panel was advised by senior host country
government officials that this experience has been detrimental to the host country
relationship.
Governance, Management and Finance CCER
The CCER on Governance, Management and Finance reflects similar perspectives to the other
CCERs regarding the broad research management and strategic issues facing CIAT. The
CCER provided the EPMR Panel with a highly valuable introduction to issues at the center.
The review was more thorough in governance and management, and had a light coverage of
finance, possibly due to time and logistical constraints noted in that report. While the report
recognized financial management and control problems, it did not delve deeply enough or
provide needed guidance to the center on reform measures.  
The CCER was conducted about six months after CIAT’s financial crisis became apparent in
November 2005. The CCER Panel recognized many shortcomings at the center, but was
optimistic. They concluded that “CIAT is positioned to make a significant contribution to the
Millennium Development Goals…” They cautioned, however, that “It is absolutely critical that
CIAT puts its house in order – and, as fast as humanly possible.” Overall, the CCER recommended
that “the Board and management of CIAT follow up the Business Plan developed to cope
with the current financial stress, by undertaking substantive redesign of governance,
management and financial systems to create a coherent framework appropriate for a project‐
based institution.” In the view of the EPMR Panel, while specific recommendations have been