Agriculture; Biology; Environment; Marine.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: Studies on limnology, water quality, pollution and
monitoring of indicators of global warming in Ghana; invertebrate biodiversity; hydrobiological monitoring
and assessment of productivity of Ghana’s major rivers. Development, pilot production and field
application of biological agents for control of vectors of water-associated diseases; fisheries/aquaculture
studies; surveys, studies, management and control of noxious aquatic plants (weeds) in Ghanaian water
bodies and catchment areas.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Aquaculture products and provision of information, services,
consultancies, mainly to public organizations.
Main Research Facilities Available: Two research laboratories/offices blocks in Accra; Gear for fish
stock assessment; pollution monitoring equipment; two field stations: Akosombo, with 24 ponds and fish
hatchery, and Tamale, with one research laboratory/office block; one research vessel on Volta Lake. Scientific Fields of Interest: Food Science and Technology.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: Multidisciplinary institute in food and related fields.
Has developed 18 major research and development areas in food science and technology, including
infestation control and protectants; grain science; fruits and vegetables; proteins; animal products;
plantation products and flavours; microbiology and bioengineering; biochemistry and nutrition;
lipid/convenience foods; milling and baking; plant cell biotechnology; food packaging/distribution; process
engineering/plant design; sensory analyses and statistical services; quality control.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Developed 275 processes in postharvest technologies covering
animal and beverage products, disinfestation process, equipment and machinery, products related to
fruits and vegetables, cereals, microbial and fermentation, plantation and spices, protein and bakery,
speciality and convenience foods. Average 250 publications each year. Train food technologists from 43
developing countries.
Main Research Facilities Available: Modern pilot plant with state-of-art equipment. Special purpose
machines such as aroma recovery plant, aseptic filler, supercritical fluid extractor; different types of
dehydration equipment, including freeze dryer; evaporation equipment such as plate evaporator and
double effect evaporator; centrifuge separators such as desludging bowl, high-speed tubular and scroll;
grinding equipment. Sophisticated instrumentation facilities, including gas chromatograph, mass
spectrometer; Instron universal testing machine; Fourier transform infra-red spectrometer; DNA
sequencing system; atomic absorption spectrophotometer; grain X-ray system; scanning electron
microscope; analytical ultra centrifuge; stopped flow spectrophotometer; optical rotatory dispersion
system. 