This article addresses the elaboration of a canonical model, involving methods, techniques, metrics, tools, and Big Data, applied to the knowledge of seasonal climate prediction, aiming at greater dynamics, speed, conciseness, and scalability. The proposed model was hosted in an environment capable of integrating different types of meteorological data and centralizing data stores. The seasonal climate prediction method called M-PRECLIS was designed and developed for practical application. The usability and efficiency of the proposed model was tested through a case study that made use of operational data generated by an atmospheric numerical model of the climate area found in the supercomputing environment of the Center for Weather Forecasting and Climate Studies linked to the Brazilian Institute for Space Research. The seasonal climate prediction uses ensemble members method to work and the main Big Data technologies used for data processing were: Python language, Apache Hadoop, Apache Hive, and the Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) file format. The main contributions of this research are the canonical model, its modules and internal components, the proposed method M-PRECLIS, and its use in a case study. After applying the model to a practical and real experiment, it was possible to analyze the results obtained and verify: the consistency of the model by the output images, the code complexity, the performance, and also to perform the comparison with related works. Thus, it was found that the proposed canonical model, based on the best practices of Big Data, is a viable alternative that can guide new paths to be followed.
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, and we, as machine learning (ML) experts, may wonder how we can help. Here we describe how ML can be a powerful tool in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and helping society adapt to a changing climate. From smart grids to disaster management, we identify high impact problems where existing gaps can be filled by ML, in collaboration with other fields. Our recommendations encompass exciting research questions as well as promising business opportunities. We call on the ML community to join the global effort against climate change
Excessive agricultural water consumption threatens safe access of billions of people to potable water. Smart irrigation systems offer more efficient water use in irrigated agriculture. Determining irrigation requirements of various soil texture classes in production fields requires more sophisticated sensing technologies such as deep learning. This study has proposed a proximal sensing system by means of using a color camera towards smart irrigation based on computer vision and deep learning to identify water requirements of three soil texture classes under different illumination conditions. An imaging station was composed to reduce the workload in obtaining training images required for training deep convolutional neural network models. Five deep learning architectures were employed to identify texture-water classes: AlexNet, GoogleNet, ResNet, VGG16, and SqueezeNet. Those models were experimented with and investigated to determine the best models in terms of detection performance and speed. By using cross-validation rules, approximately 12,214 images were studied individually for the purpose of training and testing. The AlexNet model outperformed the other deep learning models with an F1-score of 0.9973 in identifying twelve soil texture-water classes. GoogleNet and ResNet displayed the fastest detection speeds with an average processing time of 16.92 ms. The findings obtained from this study have indicated that deep learning bears a great potential in determining irrigation requirements of production fields under varying conditions
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is believed to have a significant potential use in tackling climate change. This paper explores the connections between AI and climate change research as a whole and its usefulness in climate change adaptation efforts in particular. Using a systematic review of the literature on applications of AI for climate change adaptation and a questionnaire survey of a multinational and interdisciplinary team of climate change researchers, this paper shows the various means via which AI can support research on climate change in diverse regions, and contribute to efforts towards climate change adaptation. The surveyed articles are classified under nine areas, e.g., Global/Earth Related; Water-related Issues and agriculture, 95% of which are related to adaptation. The areas that have attracted the most studies about AI applications are water-related management issues (38%). In terms of the survey results, the most robust agreements were noted concerning the capacity of digitisation and AI to strengthen governance practices and afford policy coherence in climate change. Evidence gathered in the study suggests that, provided that due care is taken, the use of AI can provide a welcome support to global efforts to better understand and handle the many challenges associated with a changing climate.Developing accurate soft computing methods for groundwater level (GWL) forecasting is essential for enhancing the planning and management of water resources. Over the past two decades, significant progress has been made in GWL prediction using machine learning (ML) models. Several review articles have been published, reporting the advances in this field up to 2018. However, the existing review articles do not cover several aspects of GWL simulations using ML, which are significant for scientists and practitioners working in hydrology and water resource management. The current review article aims to provide a clear understanding of the state-of-the-art ML models implemented for GWL modeling and the milestones achieved in this domain. The review includes all of the types of ML models employed for GWL modeling from 2008 to 2020 (138 articles) and summarizes the details of the reviewed papers, including the types of models, data span, time scale, input and output parameters, performance criteria used, and the best models identified. Furthermore, recommendations for possible future research directions to improve the accuracy of GWL prediction models and enhance the related knowledge are outlined.
The study of the vertical variation of refractive power in the troposphere is necessary for the planning of radio systems. The variation of the atmospheric refractive power in the troposphere is one aspect that affects the propagation of electromagnetic waves and therefore the performance of links and communication systems. In this study, the 10-year (2008–2017) meteorological data (pressure, temperature, and humidity) from five major cities in Pakistan was used to calculate the radio refractive power. Over the entire period, the monthly average data was simulated through MATLAB to calculate radio refractivity. This work aimed to estimate the statistical variation of radio refraction due to meteorological factors, depending on the geographical area considered. The tropospheric radio refractivity results were obtained taking into account the height of the site and the height of scale parameter. The effect of temperature, pressure, and humidity on radio refraction was analyzed over 10 years (2008–2017) for five major cities of Pakistan, namely, Karachi, Quetta, Lahore, Islamabad, and Peshawar. It was revealed that the variation of radio refractive power and atmospheric pressure is higher in the rainy season than in the dry season, whereas the results indicated that the radio refractivity increased with a decrease in temperature and vice versa. The maximum relative humidity was observed as 75, 77, 89, 64, and 77 in Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, Quetta, and Peshawar respectively, whereas the tropospheric refractivity was observed as 384, 389, 383, 437, and 378 respectively. This study found that the effect of humidity on radio refractivity is more than temperature and pressure.
The increasing importance of forest ecosystems for human society and planetary health is widely recognized, and the advancement of data collection technologies enables new and integrated ways for forest ecosystems monitoring. Therefore, the target of this paper is to propose a framework to design a forest digital twin (FDT) that, by integrating different state variables at both tree and forest levels, creates a virtual copy of the forest. The integration of these data sets could be used for scientific purposes, for reporting the health status of forests, and ultimately for implementing sustainable forest management practices on the basis of the use cases that a specific implementation of the framework would underpin. Achieving such outcomes requires the twinning of single trees as a core element of the FDT by recording the physical and biotic state variables of the tree and of the near environment via real–virtual digital sockets. Following a nested approach, the twinned trees and the related physical and physiological processes are then part of a broader twinning of the entire forest realized by capturing data at forest scale from sources such as remote sensing technologies and flux towers. Ultimately, to unlock the economic value of forest ecosystem services, the FDT should implement a distributed ledger-based on blockchain and smart contracts to ensure the highest transparency, reliability, and thoroughness of the data and the related transactions and to sharpen forest risk management with the final goal to improve the capital flow towards sustainable practices of forest management.Sheep and goat extensive production systems are very important in the context of global food security and the use of rangelands that have no alternative agricultural use. In such systems, there are enormous challenges to address. These include, for instance, classical production issues, such as nutrition or reproduction, as well as carbon-efficient systems within the climate-change context. An adequate response to these issues is determinant to economic and environmental sustainability. The answers to such problems need to combine efficiently not only the classical production aspects, but also the increasingly important health, welfare, and environmental aspects in an integrated fashion. The purpose of the study was to review the application of technological developments, in addition to remote-sensing in tandem with other state-of-the-art techniques that could be used within the framework of extensive production systems of sheep and goats and their impact on nutrition, production, and ultimately, the welfare of these species. In addition to precision livestock farming (PLF), these include other relevant technologies, namely omics and other areas of relevance in small-ruminant extensive production: heat stress, colostrum intake, passive immunity, newborn survival, biomarkers of metabolic disease diagnosis, and parasite resistance breeding. This work shows the substantial, dynamic nature of the scientific community to contribute to solutions that make extensive production systems of sheep and goats more sustainable, efficient, and aligned with current concerns with the environment and welfare.
Accelerated growth in urban populations has become a powerful force for human development, particularly in developed countries. Metropolitan cities are centers for technical and economic advancement, but air pollution, overflowing of water, and other climate effects still pose significant problems related to nature, climate, and the environment. Cities are vulnerable to increasingly dense, diverse, and interdependent urban systems. A single extreme occurrence can contribute to a systemic break-up of a city's infrastructure, often like dominoes. In this paper, a dynamic integration-assisted population management solution (DI-PMS) has been proposed. DI-PMS recognizes that the latest facilities' optimal usage of knowledge and technologies is needed to increase urbanization. They are one of the critical priorities of the weather community. Such integrated urban weather, environmental, and climate services will help cities address dangers including storms, floods, heatwaves, and air pollution, especially in climate change. The goal is to create urban facilities that satisfy communities' unique needs by high-resolution forecasting and pollution reduction climate services, which allow the construction of durable, robust, and thriving cities that support the Sustainable Development Goals. Several recent international surveys to explore these topics have been undertaken. DI-PMS gives a brief description of urban hydrometeorological, climate and air pollution activities, outlines the new urban integrated weather and environmental services concept, and emphasizes the need for science to be implemented.Solar dryer is typically used for agricultural purposes in Indonesia. There are many economically important crops requiring storage or drying under particular environmental conditions such as temperature and humidity. High temperatures inside solar dryer prevents the growth of microorganism, and quickly reduce moisture content from the substance. A hybrid solar dryer is generally considered to provide the most optimum solution, however solar panels may be expensive and they still only provide heat or energy in the daytime. Hence, we propose here a new kind of hybrid solar dryer for 24/7 optimum conditions for crops - enabled by recent advances in energy technologies as well as Industry 4.0. This study aims to create an efficient, affordable and a self-sufficient intelligent energy system that will be applied to agriculture for storage or drying purposes by measuring the energy needs for the optimal drying system. Therefore, it is crucial to estimate and assess the critical energy needs for such new systems in order to optimize and design such smart solar dryer (SSD) system especially for Indonesia's agricultural needs. We use design experience of our industry partner (PT Impack Pratama Industri, Indonesia) who has been working extensively on such solar dryer dome (SDD) based on polycarbonate material (only solar irradiation, no other technologies) and theoretical framework based on first principles in thermodynamics to estimate and assess critical energy needs for such dome with all the smart technologies. The calculation was performed based on Mollier diagram and the result still a rough estimation of energy required.Capturing and identifying field-based agricultural activities, such as the start, duration and end of irrigation, together with crop sowing/germination, growing period and time of harvest, offer informative metrics that can assist in precision agricultural activities in addition to broader water and food security monitoring efforts. While optically based band-ratios, such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and normalized difference water index (NDWI), have been used as descriptors for monitoring crop dynamics, data are not always available due to the influence of clouds and other atmospheric effects on optical sensors. Satellite-based microwave systems, such as the synthetic aperture radar (SAR), offer an all-weather advantage in monitoring soil and crop conditions. In this paper, we leverage the relative strengths of both optical-and microwave-based approaches by combining high resolution Sentinel-1 SAR and Sentinel-2 optical imagery to monitor irrigation events and crop dynamics in a dryland agricultural landscape. A microwave backscatter model was used to analyze the responses of simulated backscatters to soil moisture, NDVI and NDWI (both are correlated with vegetation water content and can be regarded as vegetation descriptors), allowing an empirical relationship between these two platforms. A correlation analysis was also performed using Sentinel-1 SAR and Sentinel-2 optical data over crops of maize, alfalfa, carrot and Rhodes grass in Al Kharj farm of Saudi Arabia to identify an appropriate SAR-based vegetation descriptor. The results illustrate the relationship between SAR and both NDVI and NDWI and demonstrated the relationship between the cross-polarization ratio (VH/VV) and the two optical indices. We explore the capacity of this multi-platform and multi-sensor approach to inform on the spatio-temporal dynamics of a range of agricultural activities, which can be used to facilitate field-based management decisions.Urban Agriculture (UA), i.e., the production of crops or rearing of livestock in cities, is growing in popularity. Upscaled UA is increasingly gaining support from policy makers, funders, local authorities and other key actors across the globe. Radical forms of the concept, in the form of edible rooftops, urban farms and high-tech growing projects, are becoming more commonplace in our cityscapes; enabling production on a level not witnessed previously. With the mainstreaming of large-scale UA comes the potential to further the social, environmental and economic value of the practice, through job creation, biodiversity enhancement, the creation of short food supply chains and other benefits. Yet, despite this growth, there are barriers to upscaling city farming. Evidence suggests that a core issue surrounds urban soil contamination and hesitation with regards to crops in the city. This paper uses a qualitative approach to explore the UK’s largest urban farm and a spectrum of other UA sites to illustrate such barriers. We reveal how public hesitation, financial barriers and soil quality prevent development. We reflect on the breadth of the issue and call for a more pragmatic approach to these barriers. In doing so, we propose a path forward for enabling UA at scale.Wildfires threaten and kill people, destroy urban and rural property, degrade air quality, ravage forest ecosystems, and contribute to global warming. Wildfire management decision support models are thus important for avoiding or mitigating the effects of these events. In this context, this paper aims at providing a review of recent applications of machine learning methods for wildfire management decision support. The emphasis is on providing a summary of these applications with a classification according to the case study type, machine learning method, case study location, and performance metrics. The review considers documents published in the last four years, using a sample of 135 documents (review articles and research articles). It is concluded that the adoption of machine learning methods may contribute to enhancing support in different fire management phases.Waste cooking oil (WCO) is a hazardous waste generated at staggering values globally. WCO disposal into various ecosystems, including soil and water, could result in severe environmental consequences. On the other hand, mismanagement of this hazardous waste could also be translated into the loss of resources given its energy content. Hence, finding cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative pathways for simultaneous management and valorization of WCO, such as conversion into biodiesel, has been widely sought. Due to its low toxicity, high biodegradability, renewability, and the possibility of direct use in diesel engines, biodiesel is a promising alternative to mineral diesel. However, the conventional homogeneous or heterogeneous catalysts used in the biodiesel production process, i.e., transesterification, are generally toxic and derived from non-renewable resources. Therefore, to boost the sustainability features of the process, the development of catalysts derived from renewable waste-oriented resources is of significant importance. In light of the above, the present work aims to review and critically discuss the hazardous WCO application for bioenergy production. Moreover, various waste-oriented catalysts used to valorize this waste are presented and discussed.The low-cost and easy-to-use nature of rapidly developed PM2.5 sensors provide an opportunity to bring breakthroughs in PM2.5 research to resource-limited countries in Southeast Asia (SEA). This review provides an evaluation of the currently available literature and identifies research priorities in applying low-cost sensors (LCS) in PM2.5 environmental and health research in SEA. The research priority is an outcome of a series of participatory workshops under the umbrella of the International Global Atmospheric Chemistry Project-Monsoon Asia and Oceania Networking Group (IGAC-MANGO). A literature review and research prioritization are conducted with a transdisciplinary perspective of providing useful scientific evidence in assisting authorities in formulating targeted strategies to reduce severe PM2.5 pollution and health risks in this region. The PM2.5 research gaps that could be filled by LCS application are identified in five categories: Source evaluation, especially for the distinctive sources in the SEA countries; hot spot investigation; peak exposure assessment; exposure-health evaluation on acute health impacts; and short-term standards. The affordability of LCS, methodology transferability, international collaboration, and stakeholder engagement are keys to success in such transdisciplinary PM2.5 research. Unique contributions to the international science community and challenges with LCS application in PM2.5 research in SEA are also discussed.In recent years, Earth system sciences are urgently calling for innovation on improving accuracy, enhancing model intelligence level, scaling up operation, and reducing costs in many subdomains amid the exponentially accumulated datasets and the promising artificial intelligence (AI) revolution in computer science. This paper presents work led by the NASA Earth Science Data Systems Working Groups and ESIP machine learning cluster to give a comprehensive overview of AI in Earth sciences. It holistically introduces the current status, technology, use cases, challenges, and opportunities, and provides all the levels of AI practitioners in geosciences with an overall big picture and to “blow away the fog to get a clearer vision” about the future development of Earth AI. The paper covers all the majorspheres in the Earth system and investigates representative AI research in each domain. Widely used AI algorithms and computing cyberinfrastructure are briefly introduced. The mandatory steps in a typical workflow of specializing AI to solve Earth scientific problems are decomposed and analyzed. Eventually, it concludes with the grand challenges and reveals the opportunities to give some guidance and pre-warnings on allocating resources wisely to achieve the ambitious Earth AI goals in the future.Accurate weather prediction, particularly accurate temperature prediction, is critical in decision-making for energy consumption, health risks, and economics. Regional numerical weather prediction (NWP) models produce operational-level temperature forecasts based on local atmospheric circulation conditions. They suffer from data- and computational intensity, resulting in low availability of high-spatiotemporal resolution. We embed a data fusion technique into the proposed framework to address this shortcoming, integrating measurements from the Internet of Things (IoT) with a high spatiotemporal resolution with weather stations observations. The framework utilizes a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network to predict surface temperature from the fusion dataset for four major cities in the U.S. (Los Angeles, New York City, Atlanta, and Chicago). The predictive framework achieves an average RMSE of 1.72 °C and an average R2 of 0.97 using the past 24 h to predict the future 12 h for Los Angeles (RMSE of 2.13 °C, 2.05 °C, 2.59 °C, and R2 of 0.98, 0.98, 0.97 for New York City, Atlanta, and Chicago). The transfer learning is adopted to leverage the pre-trained model from regions with a higher number of observation stations to predict regions with fewer stations. The transferable model improved the predicting MAE for regions with data scarcity up to 26%.Spatiotemporal data mining (STDM) discovers useful patterns from the dynamic interplay between space and time. Several available surveys capture STDM advances and report a wealth of important progress in this field. However, STDM challenges and problems are not thoroughly discussed and presented in articles of their own. We attempt to fill this gap by providing a comprehensive literature survey on state-of-the-art advances in STDM. We describe the challenging issues and their causes and open gaps of multiple STDM directions and aspects. Specifically, we investigate the challenging issues in regards to spatiotemporal relationships, interdisciplinarity, discretisation, and data characteristics. Moreover, we discuss the limitations in the literature and open research problems related to spatiotemporal data representations, modelling and visualisation, and comprehensiveness of approaches. We explain issues related to STDM tasks of classification, clustering, hotspot detection, association and pattern mining, outlier detection, visualisation, visual analytics, and computer vision tasks. We also highlight STDM issues related to multiple applications including crime and public safety, traffic and transportation, earth and environment monitoring, epidemiology, social media, and Internet of Things.Tindora or ivy gourd (Coccinia indica) is a tropical vegetable and has the potential to become popular worldwide due to its rich nutritional characteristics, adaptability to adverse environmental condition and fast fruiting nature. The fresh samples are bright green (good) in colour; it turns yellow (intermediate quality) and ultimately turns bright red (bad or inedible as vegetable). In this paper, tindora is classified using two different colour representations of the image matrix, namely RGB and HSV. In the RGB representation, intensity of the green layer versus intensity of the red layer for each pixel position is plotted. The shape of the plot enables us to identify the tindora quality. In the case of HSV representation, the hue layer is used for classification purposes. The hue layer matrix is vectorized and the Poincare plot is computed. The distribution of the Poincare plot is analysed using Cartesian quadrant system. Based on the analysis, tindora quality is determined. The accuracy of the tindora classification using RGB representation is 68.67 and HSV representation is 94.33. The classifier used in both the representations after feature extraction is primarily threshold based and hence has low computational burden. The low computational burden makes the method ideal for incorporation into smartphones in the form of an app.Forecast models of solar radiation incorporating cloud effects are useful tools to evaluate the impact of stochastic behaviour of cloud movement, real-time integration of photovoltaic energy in power grids, skin cancer and eye disease risk minimisation through solar ultraviolet (UV) index prediction and bio-photosynthetic processes through the modelling of solar photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD). This research has developed deep learning hybrid model (i.e., CNN-LSTM) to factor in role of cloud effects integrating the merits of convolutional neural networks with long short-term memory networks to forecast near real-time (i.e., 5-min) PPFD in a sub-tropical region Queensland, Australia. The prescribed CLSTM model is trained with real-time sky images that depict stochastic cloud movements captured through a total sky imager (TSI-440) utilising advanced sky image segmentation to reveal cloud chromatic features into their statistical values, and to purposely factor in the cloud variation to optimise the CLSTM model. The model, with its competing algorithms (i.e., CNN, LSTM, deep neural network, extreme learning machine and multivariate adaptive regression spline), are trained with 17 distinct cloud cover inputs considering the chromaticity of red, blue, thin, and opaque cloud statistics, supplemented by solar zenith angle (SZA) to predict short-term PPFD. The models developed with cloud inputs yield accurate results, outperforming the SZA-based models while the best testing performance is recorded by the objective method (i.e., CLSTM) tested over a 7-day measurement period. Specifically, CLSTM yields a testing performance with correlation coefficient r = 0.92, root mean square error RMSE = 210.31 μ mol of photons m−2 s−1, mean absolute error MAE = 150.24 μ mol of photons m−2 s−1, including a relative error of RRMSE = 24.92% MAPE = 38.01%, and Nash Sutcliffe’s coefficient ENS = 0.85, and Legate and McCabe’s Index LM = 0.68 using cloud cover in addition to the SZA as an input. The study shows the importance of cloud inclusion in forecasting solar radiation and evaluating the risk with practical implications in monitoring solar energy, greenhouses and high-value agricultural operations affected by stochastic behaviour of clouds. Additional methodological refinements such as retraining the CLSTM model for hourly and seasonal time scales may aid in the promotion of agricultural crop farming and environmental risk evaluation applications such as predicting the solar UV index and direct normal solar irradiance for renewable energy monitoring systems.Advances in the availability of multi-sensor, remote sensing-derived datasets, and machine learning algorithms can now provide an unprecedented possibility to predict flood events and risk. Therefore, this study was undertaken to develop a flood vulnerability map and to assess the exposure of buildings to flood risk in Warsaw, the capital of Poland. This goal was pursued in four research phases. The thirteen flood predictors were evaluated using information gain ratio (IGR), and finally reduced to eight of the most causative ones and used for flood vulnerability mapping with three machine learning algorithms, Artificial Neural Network Multi-Layer Perceptron (ANN/MLP), Deep Learning Neural Network based approach—DL4j (DLNN-DL4j) and Bayesian Logistic Regression (BLR). These algorithms show a good predictive performance with the receiver operating curve (ROC) value of 0.851, 0.877 and 0.697, respectively. The buildings’ exposure to flood was assessed in line with criteria established in European and national legal regulations. The introduced new buildings' flood hazard index (BFH) revealed a significant similarity of potential flood risk for both models, highlighting the greatest risk in zones with high vulnerability to flooding. Depending on the method used, the BFH value was 0.54 (ANN), 0.52 (DLNNs) or 0.64 (BLR). The holistic approach proposed in this study could assist local authorities in improving flood management.Key message: Sustainable control of fall armyworm (FAW) requires implementation of effective integrated pest management (IPM) strategies, with host plant resistance as a key component. Significant opportunities exist for developing and deploying elite maize cultivars with native genetic resistance and/or transgenic resistance for FAW control in both Africa and Asia. Abstract: The fall armyworm [Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith); FAW] has emerged as a serious pest since 2016 in Africa, and since 2018 in Asia, affecting the food security and livelihoods of millions of smallholder farmers, especially those growing maize. Sustainable control of FAW requires implementation of integrated pest management strategies, in which host plant resistance is one of the key components. Significant strides have been made in breeding elite maize lines and hybrids with native genetic resistance to FAW in Africa, based on the strong foundation of insect-resistant tropical germplasm developed at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, Mexico. These efforts are further intensified to develop and deploy elite maize cultivars with native FAW tolerance/resistance and farmer-preferred traits suitable for diverse agro-ecologies in Africa and Asia. Independently, genetically modified Bt maize with resistance to FAW is already commercialized in South Africa, and in a few countries in Asia (Philippines and Vietnam), while efforts are being made to commercialize Bt maize events in additional countries in both Africa and Asia. In countries where Bt maize is commercialized, it is important to implement a robust insect resistance management strategy. Combinations of native genetic resistance and Bt maize also need to be explored as a path to more effective and sustainable host plant resistance options. We also highlight the critical gaps and priorities for host plant resistance research and development in maize, particularly in the context of sustainable FAW management in Africa and Asia.
The essential requirements of our everyday lives are fresh air, pure water, nourishing food, and clean energy in a most sustainable manner. The present review article concisely discusses recent innovations in solar energy education, research, and development toward providing clean and affordable energy and clean water to some extnt. This article primarily addresses the SustainableDevelopment Goal 7 of the United Nations (SDG 7: Affrdable and Clean Energy). Over the past few decades,many research activities have been carried out on solar energy conversion and utilization. The deployment of solar energy technologies has been witnessed to combat global warming and the betterment of the planet. Drivers and barriers to implementing solar energy systems from school to master's level through real-time deployments are discussed for further development and innovations. Mainly, expedited solar energy education and research are essential to improve solar energy utilization. The advancements in solar energy education and research towards sustainable energy development and circular economy are highlighted along with further directions required.This study is intended to afford a comprehensive overview of the implications of COVID-19 on progress toward achieving the sustainable development goals (SDGs) set out in the United Nations (UN) 2030 Agenda and the state of related research activities on COVID-19 linked to the SDGs. Bibliometric techniques and visual mapping are proposed as methodological tools to better approach the objectives of the present work. This includes: retrieving related publications from Scopus database, investigating the trends and growth trajectories of research works, and analyzing the scenarios post-COVID-19 either optimistic or pessimistic outlooks. The national and international contributions and collaboration toward this theme of research are further analyzed at countries, institutions, and sources levels. This analysis indicates that research works conducted on the impacts of COVID-19 on the achievement of the SDGs are still in the immaturity level. The global research productivity on this topic was just 160 documents (0.19% of total global research productivity in all fields of science with relevance to COVID-19). The implications of COVID-19 on good health and well-being, SDG-3, have attracted considerable attention. It is followed by SDG-13 that concerned with climate changes. The post-COVID-19 scenarios showed deep and justified worries in relation to achieving the SDGs by 2030. This study figures the major issues debated in the literature with respect to COVID-19 and its implications on the SDGs. The study, furthermore, attempts to assess the required actions to advance the SDGs post-COVID-19.The aim of this review is to evaluate the impact of wireless technologies (WT) on the public health in terms of patient safety, quality of care and cost savings. This paper is up to date with the most recent publications related to the COVID-19 emergency. We ended up analysing 66 papers and found the main applications of WT on public health in the literature. The study has been organised in four different areas of application, identifies and analyses risks and benefits on public health, highlighting strengths and opportunities. Major benefits identified are: safeguard of public health in pandemic, improving outcomes in time-dependent pathologies and reducing management costs. Due to the recent COVID-19 pandemic, the adoption of WT in healthcare has increased significantly. Innovative technologies could be a smart solution to the problem, but a careful assessment of their impact on the quality and sustainability of health services is required.Abstract
International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) has a long history of collaboration with Japanese institutions to develop improved crop varieties and adopt agricultural technologies with pioneering approaches for farmers’ benefit. Since 1972, Japan has enjoyed a long history of successful cooperation with the CGIAR (formerly the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research) after becoming its 22nd Member to meet global challenges such as climate change affecting agriculture and food systems in diplomacy through Japan’s advanced science and technology. This long-standing collaboration adopts agricultural technologies developed in Japan and promotes agricultural innovation through cutting-edge technologies such as remote sensing for Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) that will provide novel solutions to the agriculture and food sectors in the tropics. Nowadays, it is presumed that this approach to data-driven agriculture realization will help establish a sustainable agroecosystem with increased agricultural productivity and sustainability by adapting or mitigating the effects of climate change and efficient use of natural resources and establishing a sustainable food value chain. This review highlights the research collaborations and new opportunities on advanced breeding technologies and digital innovations towards data-driven agriculture. In conjunction, we present a potential collaborative research between CIAT and Japan, prioritizing the current and future challenges in agriculture and food systems.
