his project focuses on understanding and quantifying differences among  ecotypes of avocado (Persea americana Mill.) to short-term flooding and how they differ in recovery. Flooding tolerance is being examined through the lens of plant physiology (i.e., leaf gas exchange, chlorophyll fluorescence) and biochemistry (i.e., carbohydrates, reactive oxygen species, antioxidants). We aim to identify if certain carbohydrates and their mobility and accessibility under flooded conditions enhance potential to survive short-term flooding. Lastly, chemical priming of avocado seedlings will be tested in the context of improving seedling survival during a later flooding stress.
This study is assessing the effects of different color photoselective shade netting (CPSN) on vanilla (Vanilla planifolia) plant physiology (leaf gas exchange, leaf chlorophyll index, chlorophyll fluorescence), morphology (leaf size, number of leaves and flowers), and development (time of first flowering, fruiting). CPSNs not only reduce light intensity, but also alter the spectral quality of light. By growing vanilla plants in cages with different colored CPSNs under the same light intensity, we are altering the light quality without changing the light intesity. The impacts of different color CPSNs on the spectral quality of plant absobed and reflected light, as well as plant physiology, morphology and development are being assessed. Potential effects such as increased photosynthetic efficiency, faster growth, greater biomass, accelerated flowering, increased flower and fruit numbers and size may be associated with specific CPSN treatments. Results from this project may provide novel ways to improve the cultivation of vanilla This USDA, OREI funded research and extension project led by Dr. Ali Sarkhosh (University of Florida, Gainesville) is a collaboration among the Univeristy of Florida, the University of Georgia, Clemson University, the University of California-Riverside, the University of Hawaii and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The project will determine the efficacy of organically certified plant essential oils on controlling fungal diseases in avocado, mango, peach and blueberry crops and the best application rates and timing for the most efficient disease control. Essential oil effects on controlling insect pests are also being assessed.

Our lab in collaboration  labs is determining the effects of plant derived essential oils on controlling anthracnose disease, caused by the fungus Colletototrichum gloeosporioides, in avocado and mango leaves and fruit. Experiments are being conducted in the lab (in vitro studies), greenhouse (using potted plants) and in organic orchards owned and managed by south Florida growers.
his USDA, SCRI funded project led by Dr. Patty Manosalva (University of California, Riverside) is a collaboration among the University of California-Riverside, the University of Florida, the University of Hawaii, Texas A&M University, the Univeristy of Milan (Italy), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

A major constraint to growing avocado trees in many parts of the world, including California, is Phytophthora root rot (PRR) caused by the fungus Phytophthora cinnamomi. Laurel wilt (LW), a vascular disease caused by the fungus Raffealea lauricola, has killed thousands of avocado trees in Florida orchards. LW is not in California but is spreading westward from the east coast of the U.S. and is anticipated to eventually reach California.

The overall goal of this  project is to control PRR and LW with PRR- and salinity-tolerant avocado rootstocks developed by researchers at the University of California, Riverside.  These rootstocks will be tested  in multistate field trials.  Other aspects of the project involve testing physiological responses to LW of these rootstocks with different scions, evaluating new fungicides for PRR control, developing in-field DNA- and protein-based diagnostic tools for PRR and LW, and developing remote sensing technology for diagnostics and disease management.
ocuses on increasing irrigation efficiency of bean and corn crops by developing methodology for artificially intelligent (AI) irrigation systems that estimate evapotranspiration.  Data are being integrating from multiple sources from both ground and aerial measurements for use in developing hydrologic and crop models. The goal  is to develop a method for measuring plot-level evapotranspiration rates  that will allow the implementation of precision irrigation management practices at fine resolutions and fine-tuning of crop growth and hydrologic models. Implementing precision water management practices should result in water savings but also in more efficient nutrient use and increased crop production. Crop water use and plant stress are being quantified at the individual plant and field levels.  Our lab is assisting in quantifying  stress and plant water use at the plant level.
Dr. Andy Jarvis is the Leader of the Decision and Policy Analysis Program in the International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and is a Theme Leader on the CGIAR Research Program for Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security, based in Cali, Colombia. Dr. Jarvis has 10 years experience of cutting edge scientific research in developing countries to support the goals of alleviating poverty and protecting essential ecosystem services of importance to humanity. His research has focused on the use of spatial analysis and environmental modeling to address issues such as agricultural biodiversity conservation, adaptation to climate change, and maintenance of ecosystem services. Over the past ten years Dr. Jarvis has published over 50 articles, book chapters or books, with over 20 of these in peer-reviewed articles published in international journals. Dr. Jarvis has also worked as a consultant to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) on developing climate change strategies to conserve agricultural biodiversity, and been a consultant on a variety of projects for the European Union, Global Environment Facility amongst others. In 2003 Dr. Jarvis won the Crop Science Society of America (CSSA) C-8 Genetic Resources award for best research paper stemming from his work on conservation prioritization research for wild peanuts in Latin America, and in 2009 received the prestigious Ebbe Nielsen award for innovative research in bioinformatics and biosystematics.
Jerome Touval is the Regional Science Director for Latin America at the Nature Conservancy (TNC). He has over 10 years of experience on key conservation issues. His work focuses on ensuring a consistent approach to conservation science across the regional program, sharing of best practices among staff, and focusing on generating the highest priority science required to address conservation management questions and decision-making. He also works with other conservation groups, government agencies and research institutions to identify priority areas for conservation, large-scale threats to biodiversity and opportunities for conservation.

 Louis Reymondin is an expert in software development to combine big and georeferenced data. He did his undergraduate in software development at University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland and did his PhD in Geography at King’s College London. Louis’ PhD research focused on the development and implementation of Terra-i: an early warning system to monitor changes in habitat throughout Latin America. Louis has about 10 years of experience in coordinating the Terra-i project and researches involving the use of artificial intelligence and data mining to better understand the dynamics between human activities and the environment.
Andres Perez-Uribe was born in 1971. He received a diploma in Electrical Engineering from the Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia, in 1993. He arrived in Switzerland in 1994 with a Swiss government fellowship and pursued research work with Professors Eduardo Sanchez and Daniel Mange at the Logic Systems Laboratory, Computer Science Department of the EPFL in the domain of artificial neural networks, autonomous mobile robotics, and reconfigurable circuits. He received a PhD degree in computer science from the EPFL in 1999 after completing his thesis on "Structure-adaptable Digital Neural Networks". In 2003 he became professor at the University of Applied Sciences of Western Switzerland (HEIG-VD / HES-SO). At HEIG-VD, he has taught courses on computer architecture, digital systems, bio-inspired systems, smart devices, machine intelligence, and has participated in the program Future Ingénieure, Egalité-HEIG-VD. He has participated as a lecturer on the Social psychology and Neurosciences doctoral schools of the Universities of Geneva and Lausanne, and is currently involved in several international research projects. He collaborates with the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in the development of Terra-i.
Mark Mulligan is Reader in Geography in the Environmental Monitoring, Modelling research group of the Department of Geography of King’s College London, UK. He has supervised some 21 PhD students and has a further 10 current PhD students including Louis Reymondin, all of whom work in policy-relevant environmental research. His research interests are in the application of environmental GIS, remote sensing and modelling to policy problems in water, agriculture and conservation. He has worked on these issues in the tropics since 1994 with funding from a range of sources and has published widely on these topics. During this time is has developed a series of widely used geo-databases (http://www.kcl.ac.uk/geodata) and policy support systems (http://www.policysupport.org) to facilitate robust and effective policy-making in ecosystem services and water resources management.