New research at CIAT, using “next-generation
RAD sequencing” (the latest approach to
large-scale or “high-throughput” genome
sequencing), provides strong molecular evidence
that cassava was domesticated in central Brazil.
It further suggests that varieties from the crop’s
primeval population then spread north and
south.
The results of clustering analysis indicate that
this process gave rise to five relatively welldefined subpopulations. Three of them are
spread across large areas of South America: the
Chaco region, Amazon River Basin, and Brazilian
coast. The others are concentrated in smaller
areas of two zones: the Andean Region and the
Caribbean coast of Mesoamerica.
“Each of the subpopulations we identified
harbors genetic diversity for traits developed in
places where cassava was adapted to human
needs and environmental conditions,” said
Becerra. “Our challenge now is to identify links
between phenotypes possessing useful traits and
the underlying genetic structure, so we can make
smarter use of cassava’s global genetic diversity
in crop improvement.”
“This new study illustrates extremely well how
fast crop improvement at CIAT is moving toward
genomics-based precision breeding, in line with the Center’s new strategy,” said Joe Tohme,
director of the Center’s Agrobiodiversity
Research Area.
For cassava, the shift began in 2012 with a major
new initiative to conduct next-generation RAD
sequencing for all of the approximately
6,000 varieties conserved in the CIAT genebank.
This collection likely represents most of the
crop’s global genetic diversity. Jointly
coordinated by CIAT and the Beijing Genomics
Institute, the sequencing initiative garnered
support from public and private sources in China
and Japan.
A bioinformatics pipeline
Once next-generation RAD sequencing was
underway, CIAT researchers next turned their
attention to building a “bioinformatics pipeline.”
This refers to the combination of software tools
and procedures required for managing efficiently
massive amounts of sequencing data.
Using the pipeline involved, first, the selection of
292 cassava landraces and experimental varieties
plus 54 samples of wild species related to the
crop. These constitute a geographically
representative sample of the 1,255 genotypes
from CIAT’s cassava collection that have been
sequenced so far. Researchers then genetically
mapped the whole sample of genotypes to align
the sequenced DNA fragments (or “sequence
reads”) with a cassava “reference genome” – a
sort of first-draft genome, which US scientists
had completed in 2009.
The next steps included “data filtering” and “SNP
and genotype calling,” procedures that measure
variation among the sequence reads. With the
resulting data, CIAT scientists identified large
numbers of SNPs (single-nucleotide
polymorphisms), which can be used for markerassisted breeding, gene mapping, and the kind
of population genetics analysis described above.
The sequencing data also enabled our
researchers to identify a core set of the “most
informative SNPs,” which permit rapid and
accurate identification of cassava samples
through a process called DNA “fingerprinting” or
“barcoding.”
“In addition to facilitating crop improvement, the
SNPs can help advance our aim of building a
digital genomic inventory of CIAT’s entire
collection of cassava genetic resources,” said
Tohme. “This is essential for realizing our aim of
creating a novel genebank, which shares not
only seed but the information that is vital for
unlocking its potential.Every 4 years, experts from around the world
gather for a meeting of the InterDrought
Consortium, which you might think of as a kind
of drought Olympics. The metaphor seems
especially apt when you consider that Olympia,
the site of the original games in ancient Greece,
is a pretty dry place.
Instead of competing with one another and
giving out medals, though, InterDrought
participants talk about challenges and progress
in alleviating an age-old scourge of food
production, which is getting much worse now as
a result of climate change. In the 2013
conference – held at Perth, Australia (another dry
place) – Steve Beebe, who captains the CIAT’s
bean research team, carried the flag for this
world-class, nutritionally rich grain legume.
An excellent track record
In their efforts to beat drought, CIAT’s bean
scientists and their partners have scored a
number of major victories in recent years. Two
drought-tolerant bean varieties were released
recently in Rwanda and three in Malawi (following
the release of such a variety in Nicaragua several
years ago), while others have been proposed for
release in Ethiopia and Kenya.
But at the meeting in Perth, Beebe suggested
that recent, hard-won gains are not enough. A
In search of Nike beans
definitive triumph over drought in tropical bean
crops requires redoubled efforts to deal with the
complex interactions between stresses.
“According to recent on-farm experience in
Ethiopia and Nicaragua,” Beebe said, “low soil
fertility diminishes the expression of drought
tolerance, so we need to focus on combining
tolerance to both these stresses plus other key
traits.”
An estimated 80% of bean production in Central
Africa is subject to soil phosphorus deficiency,
while for Eastern Africa, the figure is 65%. That’s
why African colleagues attending the InterDrought
meeting showed a keen interest in Beebe’s
message. Modeling studies suggest that in Africa
and other regions where infertile soils are
common (and farmers can’t afford to apply much
fertilizer), increased drought resulting from climate
change will have disastrous effects on bean yields.
Training for the biathlon
Part of what makes the common bean less
resilient than other staple foods under tough
conditions is what Beebe called its “privileged
evolutionary background.” The wild ancestor of
bean originated in a mid-altitude forest
environment of tropical America that is
characterized by moderate temperatures and
organic soils rich in nutrients.But by tapping the rich genetic diversity of
beans, CIAT scientists have succeeded in
identifying and using certain traits in the roots
and shoots that contribute to drought tolerance.
This accounts for the breeding successes
presented at the InterDrought Conference. At the
same time, our scientists have developed bean
lines that perform well under low soil
phosphorus.
Building on these and other recent advances,
CIAT researchers have helped devise a strategy
for developing tolerance to multiple physical
stresses in beans and other grain legumes, like
soybean. They are pursuing this strategy through
the CGIAR Research Program on Grain
Legumes, which offers the opportunity to
compare and share successful approaches
across crops.
The new strategy combines a variety of
innovative techniques. One involves genomicsbased breeding, guided by a thorough
understanding of adaptive mechanisms and their
genetic basis. Another consists of crossing
common bean with related species adapted to
desert conditions. The scientists aim to win what
amounts to a plant genetic biathlon – finding
ways to get the upper hand on drought and at
the same time low soil phosphorus.Crop scientists have discovered a gene in rice
that could significantly improve its tolerance to
drought. The DEEPER ROOTING 1 (DRO1) gene
makes the roots of rice plants grow downwards
instead of outwards, enabling them to reach water
held deeper in the soil. This means that even
under conditions of extreme water stress, plants
with DRO1 can continue to grow and produce
grain.
The findings were published in Nature
Genetics by an international team1
 that is led by
Japan’s National Institute of Agrobiological
Sciences (NIAS) and includes scientists from
CIAT. This work contributes to the CGIAR
Research Program on Rice, known as the Global
Rice Science Partnership (GRiSP).
A better way to deal with stress
Rice feeds around half of the global population,
and production must increase by around 40% in
order to meet expected demand in 2050. Yet,
each year drought affects some 23 million
hectares of rainfed rice in South and Southeast
Asia alone. In parts of India, water scarcity can cut
rice yields by more than a third, equal to losses of
US$800 million annually. Water scarcity is
expected to increase as a result of climate change
together with increased demand for water for
industrial and urban use.Scientists crossbred the high-yielding but shortrooted and drought-prone commercial rice variety,
IR64, with a deep-rooting upland rice variety from
the Philippines, called Kinandang Patong. While
IR64 already contains the DRO1 gene, the plant
cannot produce the necessary proteins that enable
the gene to function effectively. Through
conventional breeding techniques, the scientists
combined the high yields of IR64 with the fully
functional DRO1 gene in Kinandang Patong.
The roots of the resulting plants were able to
reach more than twice as deep as those of IR64.
When tested under simulated conditions of
moderate drought, IR64 yields slumped by almost
60%, while the crossbreeds suffered only a 10%
yield loss. Under extreme drought, IR64
completely failed, but the new rice plants
continued to produce grain – about 30% of the
yield of unstressed rice plants growing in normal
conditions.
The scientists also found that the DRO1 gene
appears to only change the angle of root growth
and slightly increase the length of the root tips
rather than the overall root density, meaning
energy is not diverted away from the production
of grain.One of the world’s most ambitious national
efforts to confront climate change in agriculture
got underway last year in Colombia and already
shows promise as a successful model for other
countries. Launched under a scientific
partnership that unites CIAT with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR), the
initiative also brings together farmer
associations, universities, nongovernment
organizations, and research institutes.
“This project has put Colombia at the cutting
edge of global efforts to adapt agriculture in the
face of climate change,” said Andy Jarvis,
director of CIAT’s Decision and Policy Analysis
(DAPA) Research Area and leader for climate
change adaptation with the CGIAR Research
Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and
Food Security (CCAFS). “This work is already
proving to be a successful case, which can be
replicated in any other country of Latin America.”
Climate change is expected to have significant
impacts on Colombia’s agriculture, which
employs 21% of the nation’s workforce and
accounts for more than a tenth of its gross
domestic product. In a major effort to curb these
impacts, the project is pursuing four lines of
action: (1) climate forecasting and modeling,
(2) improved technologies for adaptation of
high-priority crops, (3) site-specific agriculture,
Climate-smart solutions – Made in Colombia
and (4) environmentally sustainable production
systems.
Better decisions for better production
The cornerstone for any effort to develop
effective adaptive measures is an effective
system for making periodic climate forecasts. To
this end, CIAT and MADR are drawing on
successful experience in Senegal to develop a
tool for predicting short-term climate variation
and its effects on particular crops, aimed at
supporting the decisions and recommendations
of farmers associations. At the same time, the
project is simulating longer term, fine-scale
projections of climate change impacts on
different crops and regions to provide scientists
and government decision-makers with a firm
basis for adaptation planning.
“We hope this pilot project in Colombia will
repeat Senegal’s success in motivating farmers
to incorporate climate information into their
decisions, so they can not only protect but
increase their production,” said Patricia Guzmán,
assistant technical manager for Colombia’s
National Rice Growers Association (Fedearroz).
New crop varieties that are disease resistant and
tolerant to drought and high temperatures are
critical for bolstering the current and future food

