One of the world’s most ambitious national
efforts to confront climate change in agriculture
got underway last year in Colombia and already
shows promise as a successful model for other
countries. Launched under a scientific
partnership that unites CIAT with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR), the
initiative also brings together farmer
associations, universities, nongovernment
organizations, and research institutes.
“This project has put Colombia at the cutting
edge of global efforts to adapt agriculture in the
face of climate change,” said Andy Jarvis,
director of CIAT’s Decision and Policy Analysis
(DAPA) Research Area and leader for climate
change adaptation with the CGIAR Research
Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and
Food Security (CCAFS). “This work is already
proving to be a successful case, which can be
replicated in any other country of Latin America.”
Climate change is expected to have significant
impacts on Colombia’s agriculture, which
employs 21% of the nation’s workforce and
accounts for more than a tenth of its gross
domestic product. In a major effort to curb these
impacts, the project is pursuing four lines of
action: (1) climate forecasting and modeling,
(2) improved technologies for adaptation of
high-priority crops, (3) site-specific agriculture,
Climate-smart solutions – Made in Colombia
and (4) environmentally sustainable production
systems.
Better decisions for better production
The cornerstone for any effort to develop
effective adaptive measures is an effective
system for making periodic climate forecasts. To
this end, CIAT and MADR are drawing on
successful experience in Senegal to develop a
tool for predicting short-term climate variation
and its effects on particular crops, aimed at
supporting the decisions and recommendations
of farmers associations. At the same time, the
project is simulating longer term, fine-scale
projections of climate change impacts on
different crops and regions to provide scientists
and government decision-makers with a firm
basis for adaptation planning.
“We hope this pilot project in Colombia will
repeat Senegal’s success in motivating farmers
to incorporate climate information into their
decisions, so they can not only protect but
increase their production,” said Patricia Guzmán,
assistant technical manager for Colombia’s
National Rice Growers Association (Fedearroz).
New crop varieties that are disease resistant and
tolerant to drought and high temperatures are
critical for bolstering the current and future foodsecurity of Colombian families in the face of
climate change. To identify the best options
available, the CIAT–MADR project is conducting
large-scale experiments to test improved
germplasm under diverse conditions. On this
basis, researchers have identified resilient
varieties of beans, cassava, maize, and rice that
are well adapted to the various parts of Colombia
that are most vulnerable to climate change
impacts.
In a further effort to make crop production more
climate smart, the project is implementing an
approach referred to as “site-specific
agriculture.” The idea is to better target
improved technologies, based on the analysis of
climate information for different regions. For this
purpose, the project is creating an information
platform, designed to help achieve more efficient
use of resources and narrow yield gaps. The
platform will also be used to identify areas of
Colombia where there is high potential for
replacing livestock pastures with fruit production,
in accordance with national policies aimed at
mitigating greenhouse gas emissions.
Eco-efficiency is climate smart
Climate-smart agriculture requires smart, or
eco-efficient, use of resources. In search of
better options for enhancing water use and
carbon sequestration, the project is analyzing the
water and carbon footprints of maize, oil palm,
potato, and rice production under different crop
management practices across the country. The
results of this work, while informing environmental
planning at the national level, are also influencing
farmers’ attitudes and practices.
“Before, we used so much irrigation water that
sometimes by 3 p.m. there was no more water left
in the reservoir. The new system is very good,
because it measures how much water we’re using
and helps us conserve,” said Colombian farmer
Lisimberg Nieva.
In support of its ambitious research-fordevelopment objectives, the CIAT–MADR project is
implementing a knowledge management strategy,
which engages diverse audiences and encompasses
innovative approaches to data management,
documentation, communications, capacity
strengthening, and monitoring and evaluation.
Facts on the Colombian model for
confronting climate change
9 national partners
52 municipalities with field work underway
800 experimental plots at multiple locations
200 farms with ongoing participatory research
40 planning and training events held so far
97 researchers involvedCIAT and a large group of partner organizations
have completed the first phase in developing a
state-of-the-art resource called the Latin
American Soil Information System (or SISLAC,
its acronym in Spanish). Getting this resource
into the hands of key decision makers is critical
for national and regional efforts to grapple with
the complex challenges of climate change, land
degradation, rural poverty, and food insecurity.
The system is particularly important for
identifying where soils are degraded, determining
the potential to restore them, and identifying the
causes of crop yield gaps.
The vast amounts of soil information available
have until now been relegated to scattered
reports and databases that are not widely
accessible. Some regional sources of soil
information exist, but they provide the data at a
relatively low resolution, which often doesn’t
meet users’ requirements.
To overcome these limitations, CIAT joined a
regional initiative promoted and partially
financed by the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
through the Global Soil Partnership (GSP). The
initiative gave particular attention to
strengthening national capacity in digital soil
mapping and reinforcing national leadership in
regional networks.
A soil information power tool
The initiative’s first phase was implemented and
co-financed under a strategic alliance uniting
CIAT and the Brazilian Agricultural Research
Corporation (Embrapa) with partner
organizations in 19 countries (Argentina, Bolivia,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and
Venezuela). This first phase, led by CIAT,
strengthened the database management
capacity of dozens of experts in soils and
geographical information.
Their joint efforts centered on three main tasks:
(1) recovering, harmonizing, and storing the
information available (referred to as “soil legacy
data,” which includes soil profiles and maps);
(2) developing a digital regional map of soil
classes, based on national maps adapted to the
classification system of the World Soil Reference
Base; and (3) developing a beta version of the
SISLAC online tool (www.sislac.org). A second
phase, led by Embrapa, focused on developing
capacity to generate digital maps of soil
properties.
“The key to success was the commitment and
active participation of our partners, who brought
a lot of expert knowledge to an important shared
task,” said CIAT soil scientist Aracely Castro. “We
see this as a long-term initiative, resulting in a A few decades ago, “nobody talked about
Colombia’s Eastern Plains,” said Juan Lucas
Restrepo, director of the Colombian
Corporation of Agricultural Research
(Corpoica), in a recent media opinion piece.
“But since then, a lot has happened.”
Corpoica, CIAT, and others have developed
improved production technologies suited to
the region, while the private sector has put new
knowledge to work, planting thousands of
hectares of maize, soybean, rice, oil palm,
rubber, and improved pastures. As a result, the
vision of this unique ecosystem as a
sustainably managed “promised land” is no
longer sheer fantasy.
In addition to the species already mentioned,
there are real prospects for establishing forest
plantations and promoting widespread
adoption of agrosilvopastoral systems
(combining crops, pastures, and trees) amidst
large expanses of cotton, sugarcane, and other
crops.
But not all of the region’s potential for
sustainable development lies above ground.
2013 marked the 20th anniversary of a
landmark CIAT study in Nature magazine,
which offered intriguing evidence that
Soil mapping goes underground in Colombia improved forage grasses in the Eastern Plains can
capture large amounts of carbon deep in the soil.
Several years ago, CIAT and Corpoica renewed
the exploration of this potential under a strategic
alliance that also includes Colombia’s Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development. Researchers
confirmed that adequately managed improved
pastures have high potential to sequester carbon,
in comparison with degraded pastures, annual
crops, and native savanna. They also investigated
the trade-offs involved in realizing this potential
and created a preliminary map of the region’s
carbon reserves.
In 2013, the two organizations undertook the
laborious task of validating this map through
extensive soil sampling – 3,816 samples, to be
precise, representing an area of nearly 1 million
hectares. Then, researchers created a digital soil
map, using new tools and methods, and validated
the opportunity costs for different land uses.
The resulting tools and information provide a
solid foundation for determining the viability of
different options to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions while enhancing agricultural
productivity under various combinations of soil
and land use.Established in 2011 with strong support from
local government in the country’s southwest, the
Biopacific Park is a collaborative platform, whose
aim is to promote agricultural development in
this region and beyond.
In 2013, the Park entered into a new
arrangement with Colombia’s Administrative
Department of Science, Technology, and
Innovation (Colciencias) and the Korea
International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) to
devise a comprehensive plan for capacity
development in support of science and
technology parks in Colombia.
Under this agreement, the Korean government
will provide US$2.5 million over 3 years to
accelerate the development of three such parks:
Guatiguará Park in Santander Department;
National University of Colombia Park in the
nation’s capital, Bogotá; and Biopacific Park in
Valle del Cauca. KOICA’s support for the
Biopacific Park will center on designing its overall
development plan, strengthening its service
portfolio, and developing value-adding options
for agro-industrial products.
