Tropical Soils Biology Fertility Institute (TSBF)  
TSBF was created in 1984 as an independent entity with its own governing Board. Agreement
was reached in December 2001 for TSBF to become part of CIAT (TSBF‐CIAT), and it is
currently placed within the People and Agroecosystems RDC (Chapter 3). Today, the Institute
operates as an integral part of the CIAT research program, and the TSBF Director reports to
the CIAT DDG‐Research. TSBF‐CIAT had staff located in Africa and Latin America until 2006
when all TSBF staff were withdrawn from Latin America. The TSBF directorate is housed in
the World Agroforestry Center (ICRAF) campus in Nairobi, Kenya. TSBF maintains its own
scientific advisory Panel, to which the DG of CIAT (normally represented by the DDG‐R) and
one CIAT Board member belong (Usually the chair of the Program Committee).  
TSBF focuses on biological and organic resources in tropical soil biology and fertility and their
relationship to the natural and social environment in order to provide farmers with improved
soil management practices. TSBF staff of 14 scientists comprises seven soil scientists, one GIS
specialist, three microbiologists, one agronomist, one social scientist, and one food and
nutrition scientist. In 2006, 26 Ph.D. and 40 MS students were conducting research at TSBF.
TSBF‐CIAT fully represents CIAT’s core mission and objectives, and the research conducted is
generally of high standard. TSBF has become a world leader in tropical soil fertility research,
and its joining CIAT has further strengthened this process. The quality of outputs and
achievements at TSBF is among the highest within CIAT and is a direct reflection of its
historical institutional culture of collaboration (South‐North and South‐South),
competitiveness for international funding, and excellent scientific guidance. TSBF functions as
an almost completely special project funded unit.
An evaluation of TSBF was included in the IMAT CCER published in May 2006. The Panel
agrees with the thrust of the CCER conclusions and recommendations which are summarized
below: The standing of TSBF in the global scientific community is generally excellent. TSBF‐CIAT
has wide ranging partnerships, primarily through regional networks (AfNet, MIS, SARNet,
CONDESAN) that serve as vehicles for field research and capacity building and generally involve
strong collaboration with NARS, national and international universities, NGOs and farmer
groups/associations. Feedback received from these partners was generally positive, particularly in
Africa, where AfNet has grown to about 350 members and TSBF has established an excellent
reputation and track record of collaborative research. The uncertainty of maintaining the MIS network
activities threatens the vitality of the soil conservation and management research efforts of the Central
American countries.
CIAT has recently made decisions that affect the balance of staff and infrastructure in TSBF‐
CIAT. Up until 2006 TSBF operated in LAC and Africa but following cuts in 2006, TSBF now
focuses only in Africa. The implications for LAC are discussed later in this chapter. TSBF‐
Africa largely operates as an independent unit with a flat hierarchy. Scientists report directly
to the director, who himself is well engaged in the research, tries to encourage
interdisciplinary research and donor contacts, and also keeps close contact to the scientific
51
advisory Board. This system has been productive in research outputs but the overall
positioning of TSBF in the CIAT organization needs to be revised.Cassava characteristics make it a fundamental food security component in marginal lands in
Africa, Asia and Latin America. CIAT has a single cassava scientist posted in Africa, a post‐
doctoral molecular breeder posted in Nigeria (in the national program, not at IITA). IITA has
the primary mandate for cassava improvement in Africa and has a large network of cassava
research collaborators on the ground in Africa, while CIAT has the larger germplasm
collection and significant biotechnological tools and expertise. The Panel believes that the
complementary tools of these two CGIAR centers implies that they have all of the means to
make a major impact on cassava production, food security and rural livelihoods. This is a
potential that has been largely unrealized to date due to failure of the centers to work in a
more integrated fashion.
The basis of collaboration between CIAT and IITA is a detailed agreement signed by the
respective DGs in June 1984. The agreement recognizes the comparative advantages of each
center. CIAT was recognized as having an advantage in germplasm banks being located near
the geographic origin of cassava. In addition CIAT was recognized as an important center in
understanding the epidemiological profiles of the cassava diseases as well as, where
applicable, the source of natural bio‐control agents. Additionally CIAT was recognized as
being strong in the area of cassava processing for various industrial applications and it was
expected to take a lead role in this aspect. IITA, on the other hand, was recognized as a center
responsible for breeding and dissemination of cassava in the African continent as well as
being the principle channel for cassava germplasm destined for Africa. The agreement
seemed to have steered the basics of collaborative work between the two institutions quite
smoothly until five or so years ago when the centers began to have a strained relationship in
the broad arena of cassava research, dissemination and processing areas. IITA put the matter
of germplasm introductions to Africa as an issue that should be carefully handled to avoid, in
the IITA’s view, the possibility of introducing diseases in Africa. Modern biotechnological
tools have greatly enhanced the ability to safely transfer germplasm between continents.
Molecular markers allow materials to be screened for viruses that can be transferred through
clonal propagation, while tissue culture allows disease‐free materials to be transferred in‐
vitro. Given these technologies, there is no longer any threat of transmission of diseases from
CIAT materials to Africa.  
[#7] The Panel recommends that CIAT and IITA develop a common, coordinated cassava
research agenda and work closely to implement their joint agenda in Africa. The inability of
centers to work together in such a widely recognized priority area reflects badly on the
CGIAR system.
Forages
Livestock development is recognized as a key element for increasing the income of poor
smallholders given the increased demand for animal products in developing countries. A
major obstacle to livestock development in Africa is that a high proportion of smallholder
crop/livestock systems are located in areas with prolonged dry seasons and with land in
different stages of degradation. This leads to an inadequate supply of high quality feed for
52
livestock during the dry season. Many smallholders with livestock and limited land do not
have easy access to fodder and have to walk long distances to harvest forages. Because
forages can be cultivated under both favorable and marginal conditions, forages are one of
the few opportunities available to a large number of smallholder farmers to produce high
value or added value products.
For its work in Sub‐Saharan Africa (SSA), Southeast Asia, and LAC, CIAT has developed a
joint strategy with ILRI, with complementary research priorities and expertise to include
forages in diverse crop/livestock systems. This partnership and the interaction with the
private sector have allowed CIAT to amplify its delivery of research products. Much of
CIAT’s impact in South America is based on Brachiaria, a forage of African origin.  
At present CIAT has no forage scientists posted in Africa, and few research linkages. CIAT
had a forage agronomist in a shared position with ILRI until 2006. In the opinion of the EPMR
Panel, forage improvement is a natural entry point for CIAT in Africa. Improved forages
combine well with existing PABRA and TSBF efforts, with the potential to multiply the
impact of these already strong programs. ILRI’s forage improvement program focuses on
tropical highlands, while CIAT’s program focuses on tropical lowlands. The Panel suggests that
CIAT work with ILRI to improve smallholder animal production systems in Africa.  
Enabling rural innovation (ERI)
ERI has emerged from three main streams of CIAT’s expertise and experience: (i) Farmer
participatory research, (ii) Rural agro‐enterprise development and (iii) Natural resource
management. The aim is to use the most effective elements from these three areas to build
more robust livelihood strategies within the rural community. CIAT is testing and evaluating
ERI with partners and communities in Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Kenya,
Mozambique, Zambia, Rwanda, and DR Congo. ERI is not limited to bean‐related
technologies and involves several actors and respective roles (NGOs, extension services,
researchers). ERI was designed to work with 25 communities in three pilot areas and has
successfully expanded from pilot sites in Tanzania, Malawi, and Uganda in 2002, to new sites
in several countries with 53 groups. This work is specifically in support of PABRA; ERI has a
broader range of other research activities in addition to this. Each situation and community is
different and spill‐over effects have not yet appeared. Continued assistance to these
communities is required to maintain these activities.
This intensity of engagement is responsible for achieving localized successes, but is also its
weakness. Little systematic data have been elaborated to prove the usefulness of the ERI
concept in the long run. In Malawi the extension department felt that ERI was not very
different from the farmer to farmer field schools with which they have experience. The ERI
program operates at the developmental end of the research‐development continuum and the
Panel believes that this activity is not scaling up at a pace that merits continued support.
Institutionalization of these developmental activities must be driven by demand from partner
organizations and become their responsibility. The Panel suggests that CIAT discontinues the
separate identity of The Enabling Rural Innovation Program (ERI) and integrates this disciplinary
capacity into CIAT’s Africa regional program.  
53
5.3 Asia
CIAT conducts a set of coordinated projects that are based on poverty mapping to identify
targets and diagnosis of market and farming systems to identify key entry points for effective
intervention. Poverty in the region was assessed as greatest in Cambodia, Lao PDR and
Vietnam and was associated with mountainous regions, lack of market access, and ethnicity.
Smallholders in the upland rural areas have mixed cropping‐livestock farms, often involving
shifting cultivation, and cropping on steep hillsides. As population growth rates decline in
the region and rapid economic growth in many countries generates market opportunities,
there are significant opportunities for improving livelihoods of the rural poor. Key entry
points include CIAT improved germplasm in forages and cassava, and capacity in market
systems. This has been combined with strengths in agronomy and action research co‐learning
approaches, and with well‐developed relationships with local NARS, to deliver an impressive
set of innovations delivering measurable development outcomes. The Panel believes that Asia
regional activities provide a working example of how an integrated multidisciplinary
approach can effectively deliver outcomes by building on CIAT core expertise in
commodities. Without the integration of economic, marketing, sociological and biophysical
expertise and clear definition of targets, such outcomes would have been unlikely.  
CIAT presence in the Asia region commenced in the 1980’s with a focus on cassava
production and evaluation of forages. It has evolved from a focus on sustainable production
systems to a broader approach to farm and market systems. This has been concurrent with a
shift from a set of independent projects to a strategy of more integrated projects that
coincided with the establishment of the regional office and appointment of the regional
research leader in 2001. CIAT houses 9 research scientists (2 seconded from other agencies)
and 23 local research and administrative support staff. The regional office is located in
Vientiane (Lao PDR) on the site of the National Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute,
with smaller offices located in Hanoi (Vietnam) and Bangkok (Thailand). In addition, some
support staff members are regionally based in local NARS offices near the research sites. Of
the US$1.55M budget for the region in 2007, US$1.3M was generated via project grants largely
obtained through regional staff efforts.  
The suite of projects in the region fall into 3 linked categories – Farming and Production
Systems; Participatory Research for Development; Market linkages – that span the applied
research – development continuum. A brief description of each of these activities is given
below, followed by the Panel comments and assessment. The projects are not recognized as
an integral suite within the current research structure of CIAT. Responsible staff members are
spread across the Agroecosystems and Agrobiodiversity RDCs and their nominal supervisors
are research leaders in Africa and Colombia. Although there have been recent CCERs that
cover these RDCs, the activities in the region remain basically invisible to these review
processes. The situation is similar in the CIAT MTP, so that the integration occurring via the
regional co‐ordination is not communicated effectively in work plans. 