Despite its critical role, agriculture has lagged far behind other sectors in the development and implementation of digital tools.

A recent report by McKinsey found that, even in industrialized economies like the United States, the agricultural sector ranks 23rd out of 25 industries in digitalization, and the rate of adoption is slow. When it comes to low and middle-income countries, it appears that these innovations have an even smaller foothold.

If the agriculture sector is to overcome current challenges to increase productivity, adapt to climate change, implement environmentally sustainable solutions and, ultimately, achieve food security for the future, it needs to get smarter. It needs to get digital.A new roadmap outlining CIAT’s strategic vision for Africa 2017-2020 was launched in 2017. It highlights the organization’s goal in the  region: To promote more productive, profitable agriculture and healthier diets at no environmental cost by providing a scientific basis for development investments and policies.While sub-Saharan Africa is undergoing rapid transformation, with intensification of agriculture on smaller plots of land and with urbanization affecting agricultural innovation in rural areas, the shift represents great opportunities for the continent,” said CIAT Director for Africa, Dr. Debisi Araba.

The roadmap builds on four themes to drive agricultural progress in Africa.The armed conflict in Colombia, which lasted more than 50 years, gave rise to nearly 6.9 million internally displaced people, 87 percent of whom came from the countryside.

At the end of 2016, the Colombian government, led by President Juan Manuel Santos, and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia – People’s Army (FARC-EP, its Spanish acronym) signed a historical peace deal. The final agreement includes a comprehensive rural reform as one of its thematic axes. Once Colombia achieves lasting peace, its annual economic growth rate is expected to rise by 1.1 to 1.9 percent.

The post-conflict scenario offers a unique opportunity for CIAT to support Colombia, its host country, by providing scientific and technical advice through various strategic approaches.n 2017, CIAT celebrated 50 years of agricultural research and development impact. Throughout 2017, the Center acknowledged the amazing people behind its achievements, its hundreds of partners around the world, and its donors, without which none of this would be possible.

But CIAT also looked forward at emerging challenges and opportunities. Particularly, during the #CIAT50 celebrations held around the world, we took note of the excellent comments and suggestions made by our staff, partners and collaborators. This has motivated us to begin to chart novel research-for-development pathways forward, and reaffirmed our commitment to feed the planet, and offer a better deal for both farmers and consumers.
