Investigacion 2

When named leader of CIAT’s newest research area in 2018, Marcela Quintero asked her team what they could do differently – not entirely in terms of research, but in terms of how they could take CIAT’s record of accomplishment on solving real-world problems and scaling them up to reach a critic mass of smallholder farmers across the tropics.
Built around the experts and many well-established thematic research areas already at CIAT, the Agroecosystems and Sustainable Landscapes Research Area (ASL) takes a multidisciplinary tack. After all, managing agricultural landscapes sustainably requires multiple scientific disciplines – from agronomists and economists to ecologists and sociologists.
And, crucially, success in scaling up research requires tapping into vast networks of partners, especially those with local expertise who have a personal stake in the benefits brought by scaling up. ASL applies this strategy to its work across Africa, Asia (where ASL is a key part of CIAT’s expansion in the region), and Latin America.
CIAT remains committed to sharing research outputs, data, tools, and information resources under its open-access policy. In 2018, its collaborative research with partners delivered 171 articles published in international refereed journals, of which 85% are open access.
This ability to reach scale is a big challenge but it’s one we’re going to be able to tackle with this type of research area and CIAT’s expertise in value chains and markets,” said Quintero. “The projects we’ve started this year are already showing great potential for scaling through stronger work with public and private sector partners.”
SERVIR Amazonia, a USAID-funded program where CIAT is the lead implementing partner, is a prime example. It is a multi-country collaboration between local, national, and international partners with an interest in the health of the Amazon Basin and the livelihoods of those who depend on it. SERVIR Amazonia is just one example of how ASL and CIAT’s Decision and Policy Analysis Research Area (DAPA) combine efforts in a large-scale program to use cutting-edge technology and local knowledge to protect one of the world’s most important ecosystems.
Other examples are an International Climate Initiative (IKI)-funded project that will pilot agricultural business models for addressing drivers of deforestation in the Amazon, and a CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystems (WLE)-funded project that examines governance structures in a Kenyan county to design multi-stakeholders’ efforts for long-lasting landscape restoration investments.
CIAT is “Back in Brazil”CIAT never really left Brazil, said Andy Jarvis, the director of DAPA, but 2018 marked a recharged presence of the Center in the country.
In addition to SERVIR Amazonia, CIAT took a major role in a USAID program to strengthen private sector alliances to address biodiversity conservation and development in the Brazilian Amazon. This project, called Catalyzing and Learning Platforms and Partnerships for Biodiversity Conservation (CALPP) provides an innovation platform for sustainable business and already involves 20 private sector partners.
Jarvis is confident that 2019 will bring more big news for CIAT on major projects to help sustain the world’s most famous rainforest.It’s nice to be back in that region of the world, and it’s super exciting to be innovating through business and finance,” said Jarvis.In addition to working in Brazil, a number of projects in the Peruvian and Colombian Amazon are underway. They cover numerous research themes and programs and span issues ranging from the consolidation of Colombia’s peace process to making cattle farms more environmentally friendly through the use of specialized grasses and trees.
Beans beat target by 5.4 million householdsIn 2015, Joe Tohme, the director of CIAT’s Agrobiodiversity Research Area, and his colleagues at the Pan-Africa Bean Research Alliance (PABRA) set an ambitious goal: reach 10 million households with new varieties of common bean by 2018. When the numbers were tallied in at the end of the period, they found the beans had reached 15.4 million households over that period, beating their target by more than 50 percent.
Tohme and colleagues attribute this success to the bean business corridors approach, which utilizes market forces to drive demand for better beans. Improved beans developed by CIAT and PABRA have a variety of traits that make them superior to business-as-usual beans: high yields, quick maturation, heat and drought tolerance, quick cooking times and higher levels of nutrients such as iron and zinc.
Seed systems are the vehicle through which farmers get good quality seed of the new crop varieties they want and need. Estimates of combining abilities and heterosis of inbred lines are imperative for selection of suitable parents of maize hybrids. This study examined the combining ability of 24 drought-tolerant maize inbred lines, 12 each from International Centre for Maize and Wheat Improvement (CIMMYT) and International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA). The lines were allotted into six groups each comprising four lines. The four lines in one group were used as females and crossed to the four lines in another group as males in six different sets using a North Carolina Design II mating scheme to generate 96 hybrids. The hybrids were evaluated together with four checks across six environments in the rainforest and savannah agro-ecologies of Nigeria between 2011 and 2012. The parental inbred lines were also evaluated in separate trial in each location. Significant hybrids × environment interaction was observed for grain yield and other measured traits. GCA effects accounted for 83.3% of the variation for grain yield at Bagauda, 78.1% at Saminaka, and 77.7% at Ikenne. GCA also contributed 91.1 and 80.0% to the variation observed for plant height and ear aspect, respectively, across the environments. Significant SCA × environment interaction detected for grain yield suggests that hybrids were not stable across test environments. Prediction of grain yield in hybrids using midparent values resulted in a R2 value of 0.13. Midparent heterosis for grain yield varied from 80 to 411%, with the top 36 hybrids recording >200%. Four CIMMYT (EXL02, EXL06, EXL04 and EXL16) and three IITA (ADL33, ADL41, and ADL32) inbred lines had positive and significant GCA effects for grain yield across environments. The novel alleles present in the CIMMYT lines will improve the adapted IITA germplasm in a new population for extracting new set of more productive inbred lines for developing adapted high yielding drought-tolerant maize hybrids.Drought and low soil nitrogen (low-N) constitute major constraints to maize (Zea mays L.) production in West Africa (WA). The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement (CIMMYT) have developed drought and low-N tolerant inbreds for Africa. Combinations between selected IITA and CIMMYT inbreds could produce outstanding hybrids. Diallel crosses of 12 IITA and five CIMMYT early yellow inbreds plus four checks were evaluated under drought, low-N and optimal conditions at four locations in Nigeria for 2 yr. The objectives were to examine the combining ability of the inbreds for grain yield and other traits, classify the lines into heterotic groups, identify best testers under the contrasting environments, assess genotype × environment interactions and evaluate the yield performance and stability of single-cross hybrids. Grouping of the inbred lines was done with heterotic group's specific combining ability (SCA) and general combining ability (GCA) (HSGCA), single nucleotide polymorphism based genetic distance (SNP-GD) and GCA effects of multiple traits (HGCAMT) methods. The GCA mean squares for all traits were greater than SCA mean squares in all environments. The inbreds were classified into four heterotic groups each across environments by HSGCA and SNP-GD while HGCAMT method placed them into three groups. HGCAMT was the most efficient followed by HSGCA and then SNP-GD method. The HGCAMT identified inbreds ENT 17, ENT 15, and ENT 8 as best testers for heterotic Groups 1, 2, and 3. Hybrids TZEI 17 × ENT 15, and TZEI 149 × ENT 15 were outstanding across environments.
Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) is the most important grain legume for human consumption, and drought stress affects over 60 % of dry bean production worldwide. Field and rainout shelter studies were conducted at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Palmira, Colombia to (i) evaluate phenotypic differences in drought resistance in Andean and Mesoamerican gene pools, (ii) identify genotypes of both Andean and Mesoamerican with superior drought resistance, and (iii) identify phenotypic traits that may be useful for breeding to improve drought resistance in common bean. A total of 24 bean genotypes, twelve genotypes belonging to Mesoamerican gene pool and twelve to Andean gene pool were evaluated under field with two levels of water supply (irrigated and rainfed) and managed drought under rainout shelter conditions. Results showed that five Mesoamerican lines SEA 5, SEA 15, SER 22, SER 16, SER 8 and one Andean line SEQ 1003 have superior resistance to drought. The superior performance of these lines under drought stress was associated with better canopy biomass at mid-pod filling that could be related to deeper root system and effective use of water, combined with efficient remobilization of photosynthates from vegetative structures to pod development (pod partitioning index, PPI) and grain filling (pod harvest index, PHI). Pod harvest index could be a useful selection criteria for drought resistance, to improve the efficiency of breeding programs for selecting superior genotypes of common bean.
This study aims to calibrate and validate the generic crop model (CROPGRO-Soybean) and estimate the soybean yield, considering simulations with different sowing times for the current period (1990-2013) and future climate scenario (2014-2030). The database used came from observed data, nine climate models of CORDEX (Coordinated Regional climate Downscaling Experiment)-Africa framework and MERRA (Modern Era Retrospective-Analysis for Research and Applications) reanalysis. The calibration and validation data for the model were acquired in field experiments, carried out in the 2009/2010 and 2010/2011 growing seasons in the experimental area of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Angónia, Mozambique. The yield of two soybean cultivars: Tgx 1740-2F and Tgx 1908-8F was evaluated in the experiments and modeled for two distinct CO2 concentrations. Our model simulation results indicate that the fertilization effect leads to yield gains for both cultivars, ranging from 11.4% (Tgx 1908-8F) to 15% (Tgx 1740-2Fm) when compared to the performance of those cultivars under current CO2 atmospheric concentration. Moreover, our results show that MERRA, the RegCM4 (Regional Climatic Model version 4) and CNRM-CM5 (Centre National de Recherches Météorologiques - Climatic Model version 5) models provided more accurate estimates of yield, while others models underestimate yield as compared to observations, a fact that was demonstrated to be related to the model's capability of reproducing the precipitation and the surface radiation amount.
To support tropical maize (Zea mays L.) breeding efforts, the current work aimed to assess harvest index (HI) in modern hybrids and determine the effect of different planting densities on grain yield and HI under well-fertilized (HN) and nitrogen (N) deficient conditions. Harvest index and grain yield of 34 hybrids on average reached 0·42 and 7·06 t/ha (five environments), indicating a large potential for improvement in HI relative to temperate hybrids. Ear weight (r = 0·88), HI (r = 0·78) and shoot dry weight (r = 0·68) were strongly associated with grain yield. In the second experiment, seven hybrids were evaluated at planting densities of 5, 7, 9 and 11 plants/m2 under HN (six environments) and N deficient (LN) conditions (four environments) to assess the effect of planting density on grain yield and HI. Grain yield increased by 40·4 and 21·8% under HN and LN conditions when planting density was increased relative to the lowest planting density. Harvest index increased from 0·42 at 5 plants/m2 to 0·45 at 11 plants/m2 under HN conditions and decreased from 0·44 at 5 plants/m2 to 0·42 at 9 plants/m2 under LN conditions. Harvest index was maximized at planting densities of 8·33 plants/m2 and 5·30 plants/m2 under HN and LN conditions, respectively, while grain yield was maximized at 9·93 plants/m2 and 7·89/m2. Optimal planting density maximizing both HI and grain yield were higher than planting densities currently used in tropical germplasm. It can be concluded that productivity in tropical maize could be increased both under intensive (+40·4%) and lower-input management (+21·8%) by increasing planting densities above those currently used in smallholder agriculture in Latin America and Sub-Saharan Africa, in environments targeted by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center.
Over the past three decades, more than 40 banana cultivars have been introduced in eastern and southern Africa for evaluation and dissemination to smallholder farmers facing banana productivity challenges. This study analyses the seed systems used to avail the genotypes to the target users, discusses farmers experiences and consumers perspectives in five countries Kenya, Mozambique, Tanzania, Rwanda and Uganda. The study reveals that materials came from the International Transit Centre as tissue culture plantlets (rooting or proliferating), from private companies such as Du Roi, South Africa and from the national and international breeding programs such as NARO-Uganda and International Institute of Tropical Agriculture. Within the countries, new genotypes followed both the formal and informal seed systems. Of the 44 genotypes introduced, 18 were not adopted and the adoption of the others depended on the end users socioeconomic perspectives. For green-cooking bananas, farmers selected for sensory attributes (taste, flavor, texture, color of the food when cooked). For dessert bananas targeting local and regional markets, in addition to sensory attributes, farmers selected for bunch, hand and finger characteristics plus similarity with other traditional dessert cultivars. The selection for juice/beer/wine cultivars focused on astringency, starch, plant vigor and bunch size. Irrespective of the end use, resistance to pests and diseases and early maturation were important considerations. Analysis showed that sensory attributes significantly contributed to the consumers willingness to pay for new cultivars. Farmers explored new uses and two cultivars were adapted to new uses while another two were adapted to new consumer markets. It is suggested that by involving the end users in the evaluation and selection of new cultivars (participatory variety selection, PVS) adoption of introduced cultivars would be enhanced.
