Scientific Fields of Interest: Agriculture.
Main Lines of Research and Training Activities: Conduct basic and applied research in crop
improvement, crop management, crop protection and social sciences; Develop human resources at
national and international levels through postgraduate teaching and training; develop and extend farm
technologies for integrated rural development.
Major Scientific Results or Products: Institute has developed large number of higher yielding and
disease-resistant varieties of cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables, fodder and fibre crops.
IARI wheat varieties account for about 50 percent of wheat varieties released at the national level.
Institute is credited with bringing about the green revolution in India. Agro techniques, fertility and water
management practices, crop protection schedules and control of pests and diseases for above crops
have been worked out to realize maximum yields. Institute has earned 26 patents.X-ray diffraction and differential thermal analyser; mass
spectrometer; NMR spectrometer; gaschromatographs; amino acid analyser; Nis and auto N analysers;
ultracentrifuges; refrigerated centrifuges; electron microscopes; scintillation and GM counters; atomic
absorption spectrophotometer; infrared spectrometer; UV/Vis spectrophotometer; electrophoretic
apparatus; gamma irradiation chamber; soil bin; feed compactive unit; seed drill testing machines; pump
test rig; package testing machine; borehole camera; lysimeter; automatic weather station. IARI has
modern phytotron facility, farm operation service, computer application centre and central library with
600,000 publications and 26 divisional libraries. Institute also has nine regional research stations across
country.
Future Development Plans: Research projects on rice wheat farming system, development of hybrids
of important crops sustainability of farming/cropping systems, biotechnology, food and agriculture policy,
environmental sciences, collection and conservation of peanuts/microorganisms and integrated nutrient
and pest management. 