The Participatory Research for Development in the Uplands (PRDU) project is funded by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and implemented jointly by CIAT
and the International Potato Center (CIP). The project works with international, national, and
local research and development partners to provide technical and methodological support to
five IFAD‐funded investment projects in China, Lao PDR, and Vietnam. Participatory
approaches and production technologies are piloted at focus sites (village clusters). Successful
approaches and technologies are institutionalized by implementing partners and scaled outby the investment projects. The main objective of the PRDU project is to improve
sustainability of livelihoods of resource poor farmers in steep uplands of Lao PDR, China,
and Vietnam through technical and institutional innovations, as a contribution to reducing
poverty in indigenous and marginalized rural communities. Activities involve on‐farm trials,
mentoring of extension specialists, training workshops, and monitoring and evaluation using
a livelihoods approach. These activities are interfaced with the projects outlined above.
Market linkages   
The Small‐scale Agroenterprise Development in the Uplands of Laos and Vietnam (SADU)
project, funded by the Swiss agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), is the major
activity focused on market linkages. Market limitations are often a major constraint in upland
areas and agroenterprise development can assist through identifying products with market
demand; identifying constraints along the market or value chain and establishing market
information systems; stimulating development of new service providers; and engaging
authorities in providing an enabling environment for trade. The objective is to identify and
evaluate market opportunities for agroenterprise development. SADU focuses on an area
rather than a product. The aim is to enable farmers to engage fully in market systems. SADU
works with the whole market chain and attempts to address constraints wherever they occur.
In Vietnam, contract farming approaches are being investigated for cassava given expanding
local and regional market demand for starch and ethanol. This provides a linkage point to
activities on cassava production systems via CIAT related high‐yielding cassava varieties. In
other areas, rapid market appraisal techniques have been used to reveal constraints and
opportunities. This has led to development activities on products such as persimmon
(Vietnam) and paper mulberry (Lao PDR). Local NARS are engaged to deal with production
issues associated with such products. The relevance to CIAT is that market driven
opportunities can help poor farmers out of the poverty trap, so that, for example, less
pressure is placed on annual cropping of upland areas if labor productivity is increased via
these alternative commodities. In addition to the close working relationships with NARS,
there is close engagement with district and provincial officials in helping to structure the
policy environment to enable trade and entry of agro‐industry in a manner that generates
most value to the rural poor of the region.
Panel Assessment of the Asian regional program
The Asia regional program has put in place a high quality and coordinated set of research for
development projects that are targeted at specific outcomes in key upland systems. The ability
to blend together a myriad of funding agencies and retain a strategic research focus can only
be commended. The diagnostic approach to identifying entry points most likely to succeed is
a concept that has broad application. The building of relationships with local agencies in
managing the extent of CIAT engagement across the research‐development continuum is also
commendable in that it is managed in a manner that focuses CIAT effort at the applied
research level but extends to a position that underpins the development capacity in other
agencies required to scale up outcomes. In addition, projects are conducted jointly with other
CGIAR centers (CIP, and ILRI,) as appropriate and there are close links with IRRI. There have
been good attempts at monitoring of impact and diffusion of effects beyond the immediate
project activities. This is a critical aspect that should be a required feature of activities that
engage through to outcome level