As of July 2007 CIAT was playing a much reduced role in LAC relative to past levels. Both
external and internal factors limit CIAT’s activities. External factors include weakened NARS
capacity in many countries and reduced priority for LAC amongst most CGIAR members.
Internal factors include financial constraints, a fluctuating research focus and the low priority
given to the region by CIAT management.  
CIAT’s mandate crops of beans, rice, cassava and forages are fundamental components of
Latin American smallholder production systems and are essential elements of the common
diet in the region. Challenges in management of the natural resource base, including soil
erosion and declining soil fertility, are also limiting production constraints over a large share
of land in the region, particularly in Central America and the Caribbean subregion (CAC).
Given this convergence of regional needs and CIAT capacity, CIAT is well placed to
contribute to poverty reduction, improved nutrition and an improved environment in the
region.  
CIAT has a regional office for Central America in Managua, Nicaragua, staffed by a
coordinator, a national staff economist, a national staff rice improvement scientist, and three
administrative staff. Two special project scientists from Agrosalud are also located in
Managua. One geographer from the CIAT forage program is located in Honduras. Core
support for the region in 2006 was US$0.2M. If CIAT’s research presence in CAC is tiny, it is
virtually invisible in the rest of Latin America. Two CIAT international scientists act as the
executive secretary and advisor to the executive secretary for the Amazon Initiative in Brazil.
A CIAT geographer is located in Bolivia. In 2006 there was no published research output from
these three staff. It is unclear to the Panel what these small, isolated activities contribute to
CIAT’s mission. Even more puzzling to the Panel is why CIAT has allowed its presence in
South America to deteriorate to this extent.  
The CAC office has been subject to frequent changes in staffing and organization. At its peak,
CIAT had 8 international scientific staff in the region. Four TSBF international scientists were
terminated during 2006, one of which was in CAC, another in Africa, and two at CIAT center..
Major activities in the region have included watershed management, forage, cassava, rice, and
beans improvement, participatory breeding, tropical soils biology and fertility, and rural
agroenterprise development. Until 2001, bean, rice and cassava improvement were each
projects under the Genetic Resources directorate, and Soils, Agroenterprise, and Participatory
Research were projects under the Natural Resources Directorate, along with Hillsides, Land
Use, and Sustainable Systems. The Hillsides project has terminated, while Land Use, and
Sustainable systems work continues, but organized under the Agroecosystems RDC.The need for CIAT engagement in CAC is still valid. CIAT’s support for national programs
which are small and poorly funded, remains critical. For example, few Ph.D. level agricultural
scientists are employed in the NARS in the region. So, research leadership from senior CIAT
scientists is important. Beginning in the 1980s, CGIAR centers played a central role in
building and maintaining regional research networks such as PROFRIJOL in beans, PRM in
maize, and MIS in soils management. The networks were effective, efficient and align closely
with CIAT’s mandate and research approach.  
Respect and appreciation by regional partners for CIAT’s past work is very high in several
areas. The bean germplasm program in particular is a dominant presence because of the
impact of past work, and because the high respect the breeders in the region hold for CIAT’s
present program leader. Rice and forage germplasm work appears to have a solid, if less
secure, position among scientists in the region. The cassava program has had a smaller
impact, but recent changes in the program have created optimism. Elements of participatory
approaches to research are well established in the region. This has been a major change from
past approaches, and one for which much credit is due to CIAT.  
